All right. Good morning, good afternoon, good evening. I'm Ethan Evans. I'm known to most of you, but I'm your instructor for Level Up, Breaking Through to Executive. And I'm excited to share with you today everything I can and know about how to get to the next level in an executive context. Now I mentioned to some of the people who were here early, there will be extra content today. And Jason, I'm not sure if someone just set the caption language to Arabic. I'm not sure that will work out for everyone if it does that for the whole recording. So you may want to do some Google work and figure that out. I'm not enough of a Zoom expert to know. And for the person who wants the captions in Arabic, if we can have you do that without taking them out of English for everyone else, that's cool. Otherwise, they're going to need to remain in English for the plurality of the audience. That said, there will be extra content today and tomorrow. So everything in the core class will be covered. Everything you sign up and paid for will be covered in three hours. Q&A usually runs longer and then Jason's going to run a facilitated networking hour past that if you can stay. There'll be another networking hour tomorrow. That's all bonus content. So if you don't have the time or not interested, you don't need to stay. But we highly recommend it. Since I have a lot to cover, I'm going to jump in. So here's an outline of the course. Introduction. We're doing that right now. It will be very short. We'll spend all day today on what I call great executive performance. This is telling you what it looks like to be qualified to get a director or higher position in a large company or a truly executive leadership position in a smaller company. We cover this in three buckets. They overlap. Those three buckets are what do you personally do? What do you lead your team to do? And what do you do on the corporate scale? So what do you do on the full company scale? We will get through all of you, all of your team and most of your company. Tomorrow we will pick up with your company. We will go deep into the promotion process. We will talk about things like executive presence. And then we'll cover some additional resources and even more Q&A. Today is a little longer. Tomorrow is slightly shorter with more Q&A. So the most important thing to give you as an introduction to this course so you get the full value is the blueprint. This is a blueprint. In six hours, even with bonus material, seven, eight, nine hours, I cannot possibly make you into an executive. What I can do is tell you how to get there. So my goal, like the picture, by the way, every photo in this deck is chosen intentionally. So if you're wondering what the photo means, you can't figure it out. It does mean something related to the slide content. This is a blueprint of how you get there. You have to actually apply the material. So the first action you get out of this course is to schedule time now to do some of that work. You need to actually schedule the time and plan on how are you going to follow up? Because if you listen to me today and listen to me tomorrow and do nothing different starting Monday morning, then thank you for your course tuition, but you will not get that much out of it. You will feel a little smarter, but nothing will change. You have to actually implement it. So many of you know me already. I would assume all of you know of me, but you don't necessarily know my whole background. Let me share that briefly. I was educated as an engineer. That's me many, many years ago in my first startup. I got a bachelor's degree in computer science and computer engineering from Carnegie Mellon, a master's in engineering from Purdue. I was working on a PhD in robotics when I decided I didn't have that much more school in me. And instead I went to a startup. I spent 12 years in startups. I went into leadership almost immediately. I was effectively in a manager role in less than a year. So I am much more a manager and a leader than I am a coding engineer. After 12 years in a variety of startups, I joined Amazon. This is where most of you know me and know my history. I joined as a senior manager, just like this course is advertised. Now I know some of the people here are ICs and some of you are not yet senior managers. The course applies to everybody, but I point out I walked the walk from senior manager to director to VP and we'll talk about my promotion path. Along the way I worked on all these household names, Prime Video, App Store, Twitch, Prime Gaming, and of course now I teach and coach and I'm a writer. Okay. Let's see the next slide is probably okay. The next slide just gives you a quick overview of why is this hard? Why is it hard? Why does it seem like a bottleneck? Why are you stuck? Why did you respond to a class about being stuck? People commonly get stuck at this point. There are three reasons. One to get to the executive level, you actually have to behave differently. It's much more about how to think versus the quality of your personal professional thinking on your area of expertise. You have to change mindset. We'll talk a lot about this and I'll explain it. Number two, it is a significant bottleneck. How many reports does your direct boss have? Even if you are not intermediated by another person at the same level, so a senior manager reporting to a senior manager, there's a big bottleneck. If your manager is a director and has eight senior managers working for them, then at some level you have a one in eight chance of succeeding them or a one in eight chance of taking the next role. You're trying to make your odds way better than that, but the point is there's a lot of senior managers. I once wrote a post called two damn many senior managers kind of talking about this bottleneck problem. The last thing is competition. Of course, there are a lot of people here today like you getting education. There's a lot of the competition at this level is good. In other words, by the time you get to the level where you're trying to break into the executive ranks, there are a lot of other people also striving to break into those executive ranks alongside you. Those are people who went to good schools, got good marks, have advanced degrees, worked at good companies. So some people don't like this, but promotion is inherently competitive at this level, at least if you want to go fast. So those are your three blockers at a big statistical level. So we're going to jump into what is great executive performance? What are the standards? That said, this is our outline of that first section. When I say the first section, remember I said we're going to talk about you, your team and your company in three big buckets. And all of those go under this heading, great executive performance, the standards. So take a quick look at this slide because we're about to go into one of two very short breakout sessions where you will be grouped with two other people from the class for just a very short time. And the goal of that time, some of you did a good job and did your pre-work and this will be really easy for you. Some of you are like, pre-work, I joined the class this morning because there were a couple people who signed up this morning. What pre-work? You can find that out from Jason in a follow-up email or you may have gotten it automatically the minute you signed up. But part of the pre-work is to identify where you think you're stuck. We can't get you unstuck if you're not clear on where you're stuck. And so in this breakout, you'll be paired with two other people. Introduce yourself. Here you go. You're going to introduce yourself very briefly. State your career goal. What are you trying to achieve? Because if you're not clear on your goal, you need to be clear on your goal. State where you're stuck and state what you hope to learn today. And then let each of the other two people do that so that you get a few different perspectives of where people tend to get stuck and what they're trying to get out of the class. Now these breakouts are painfully short on purpose. Why? One, time is the essence. Two, we want to keep you here focused. So understand you have 120 seconds per person to cover this. Your goal in the discussion is to come out with clarity on where you're stuck and what you're trying to learn. Why? I want you focused on what you're trying to get out of this class. So if you haven't, consider taking a screenshot of this so you know what you're talking about when you get dropped into the breakout rooms. We're going to give you 10 seconds to do that. And then I will see you back here in six minutes. At the end of the breakout session, we will not have another breakout until the end of the day tomorrow. So it's going to be all me. So get as much as you can out of this meeting your peers. I'll see you back here in six minutes. Jason, take it away. All right, I'm going to stop recording soon and I'm going to open up all the breakout rooms. Breakout rooms are open. Feel free to join them. See you in five minutes. All right, so everybody, welcome back. Actually, let's do something real quick. It'll be a race, but I invite a couple of you, maybe the first three. Just briefly, come off mute and say, where do you feel you're stuck? Like your name and where you're stuck? Raise your virtual hand so we don't get 100 people talking at once. Okay, good idea. Diana, you. Okay, so where I think I'm stuck is I've been a director at companies of like a couple thousand people to always 600,000 people companies that and I haven't been able to get to that next level VP title. And what's very interesting is in my small group of three, all of us recognize that we're introverts and that we've also learned just doing great job and achieving results isn't good enough. We need to self promote and get outside of our comfort zone. I will be talking about exactly some of that in the class. That said, if I don't get to it, I have some specific techniques for how introverts can self promote in a way that's more comfortable for them. So you can put that in Q&A and start collecting votes on it. Like Ethan, tell us our tips for for humble self promotion. If there is such a thing, Saurabh. Hey, everyone. So I was just talking to Rita and Srini in the breakout room. And for me personally, I don't feel like stuck. But the struggle that I'm having is I have been IC previously manager and then IC and then again manager. So I have been it has been difficult to find a balance between how much technical skills I should carry forward while moving upward in the ladder. And when I break out in the executive role, so possibly looking to get that understanding because I feel like if probably that's the area that I'm stuck. OK, I'll end up talking about that as well. I will be slanting that if you are an IC or you want to remain in IC, you and other listeners, I focus this class mainly on leaders and I will be talking about what I think is the appropriate focus on your personal skills as a leader. ICs will have to listen to that with a little bit careful ears, because if you're an IC, there's more emphasis on your own personal technical expertise, financial expertise, legal marketing, whatever it is you do. Thank you, Saurabh. We'll take Martin and then the rest of you. Unfortunately, you put your hands down just because we're going to keep moving, but I appreciate you all volunteering Martin. Hi, good morning. Good morning. I think there's a lot of overlapping themes here that I think are aligning with what I signed up to the class for. I think one of them is exposure, how to be noticed in such an organization and also a little bit how to advocate for oneself without seeming to be cocky or arrogant. In a way, that's very sure of what you're speaking of. I think a lot of the goals that you've already pointed out are exactly what I signed up for. Perfect. Well, good news for all of you. This is what we would expect, that a lot of you would find commonality and are stuck in similar places. Let's get on to solutions. We're starting now with the focus of what you do personally. What do you need to be in order to be recognized as director, VP, etc.? I feel there are three main buckets. First, you need to be both scaled and deep, which is weird. How do you scale up to manage hundreds of people, maybe even thousands ultimately, and yet still be deep? Second, you're hired to be a change agent. Change agent means, as a director, you're not just expected to make things go the way they are. You're expected to make positive change and impact for your company, improve the competitive position, streamline the operations. Ultimately, all of these things boil down to make more money. At least if you're not in a nonprofit, corporations are about their bottom line, and something you do, you're expected to make that better. How are you doing that? The third thing, individually, is being trusted. I will talk a lot about trust. As your vice president, as your senior vice president, I don't have time to audit all your decisions. I may only meet with you monthly. I need you to be on top of your stuff, and I need to be able to trust that you're leading the team right and making hard decisions well. So, trust the decision maker. Those are three things. We're now going to go into them in pretty good depth. Scale deep leader. I love this Steve Jobs quote. People think focus means saying yes to the thing you've got to focus on, the thing you're going to do. It also means saying no to the hundred other good ideas. So much of being able to scale is getting rid of the stuff that's good but not great. It's choosing, placing your bets. So, let's talk about scaling yourself. This goes exactly to the point someone just brought up about how deep can you be personally? Because a lot of what has gotten you to this level is your personal expertise. You're the best marketer, the best writer, the best engineer, the best lawyer, the best product manager, program manager. That's enough to get you to the top of a small project, 10 people, 20 people, 30 people, maybe even 50, maybe even 70. But at some point, no matter how good you are, you need to be focusing on leveraging the team instead. Therefore, falling back to, oh, I'll just do it myself, let me show you how I would do it, no longer scales and people get trapped in this. This is why it says on the right-hand side, your personal ability starts to become your liability because you use it as a crutch and you run to what you're familiar with. Instead, you're expected to know the details of your area, but you do that by trusting the leaders under you to share information up to you. So you train the leaders under you in your growing team and say, look, I'm expected to know what's going on. I can either come by and feel like I'm micromanaging you and quiz you twice a week, or you can learn these are the types of things I need to be made aware of, problem scaling, and then you can learn how to do that. These are the types of things I need to be made aware of, problems, schedule overruns, people departing, human resources issues, technical blockages. You need to tell me proactively and then I'll leave you alone to do your job. Just drop me a note, use Slack, whatever your preferred method is, but you train your leaders to feed you the information. That way you scale yourself because they are automatically feeding you things. If you also want to have a great relationship with your boss, figure out what your manager needs from you and learn to feed it to them. Second, I explained to my team, auditing is part of my job. I'm sorry if you feel like I don't trust you. That's not true. Rather, I am paid to stay on top of the details and that means from time to time, I'm going to come into your group with a microscope. It's not because I don't think you're doing a good job. It's not because I don't like you or trust you. It's because that's what my management expects from me. Please understand this is part of a process and it's not some insult. These are the ways you scale in this aspect of being both a large leader and also connected to the details. One leader I knew, he's now the CEO of Twitch. He took over from the founder. He described what his leadership style looks like as a bit like a saw. It's up high and then it has a tooth that goes really deep where he audits and then it's up high and then there's another tooth. He doesn't lead at a consistent level. He's alternating deep and shallow, deep and shallow. That's another way to look at it. What's your goal? Your goal here is, think of it this way, how many smart decisions that you will be happy with can you cause to be made without you ever being in the room? How many smart decisions can you educate and align your team to be able to make without you? So that you don't need to be there. That's a way to think about it. Now, some of you are familiar because you're from Amazon, you've heard of Amazon, you've heard this somewhere else with the word mechanisms. Mechanisms is sort of a specialized word for process. One of the ways you can scale yourself is to set up process that efficiently gets you the depth you need. So status reports are a classic mechanism or process. Having a staff meeting. Classic mechanism or process. Note the wrong way to use a staff meeting is to go around the table and have one-on-one conversations and use it like eight five-minute one-on-ones with your eight reports while everyone else sits for 30 or 40 minutes waiting for their turn. You want to use a staff meeting more efficiently to cover shared issues. If you need that information, get it in writing outside of it. WBR is an abbreviation that some of that we use at Amazon. But it's applicable everywhere. It's called a weekly business review. It's simply another example of a mechanism where during that weekly meeting, the team goes deep into the business metrics of the meeting and says, how is the business doing? Did we grow sales this week? Did we have customer problems? Why? And so it's forcing you to dig deep. Why is that done? If you don't have mechanisms, something that forces you to do this on a daily, weekly, and monthly basis, then what happens is you get busy and you mean to do it tomorrow. And you mean to do it tomorrow. And you mean to do it tomorrow. And I'm sure you're all familiar with the thing that you've been meaning to do tomorrow for two or three weeks. That's how you end up out of touch. So again, this is a blueprint. I can't teach you all of this. All of these slides will be made available to you as well as the recordings. You can review them later. But in each case, I cover what you need to do because these are the standards of performance. I give you a few tips and I move on. So we have a couple slides on prioritization. As you go up in level, your time will become more and more limited. Therefore, you must choose what to do. The first thing is to accept you cannot possibly do everything. Some of you were very good students. You did all your homework. You got into your first job. You were able to do everything that was assigned to you. Then you got your second job. You got promoted. By working longer, you were still able to do everything and get to inbox zero. At some point, that will break. For most of you, I imagine you always have a backlog of email and things to get to no matter how much you work. So point number two, you're going to have to say no to some things. Understand you're already saying no to things. It's just how consciously are you doing it? All those things you haven't gotten to, you're saying no to. It's just, did you make explicit choices or is it being made by some random algorithm of what you happen to get around to? You want to do this intentionally. Third, meetings are a plague. When I was at Amazon, my calendar was full of meetings from when I got in at nine to when I left at six, five days a week. So I had 45 hours of meetings a week, roughly. I ate in meetings and I had to try to get my work done between meetings or outside of meetings. Maybe if I had two or three hours a week free to actually work, that was great as a vice president. I survived, but this is not the best way. You want to fight meetings on all fronts. There's a whole class that could be done on how to control meetings. Send someone, send one of your people, delegate, let them cover and send you a summary. Opt out, ask the classic question that's become popular, this meeting could have been an email. The last part as a leader is ruthless focus. What is ruthless focus? It means occasionally pissing some people off to say no to something. A very quick story. People always love my stories. One of my peers and then my final manager at Amazon, a guy named Mike Frisini, worked for early in Amazon as a director. He worked for a very important person in the company. He worked for a very tough senior vice president and that senior vice president emailed him and asked for a very detailed report on stuff. Mike thought that report was a waste of his time. So he is an extremely bold confrontational person and he wrote back and said, this report is a waste of my time. I'm making us a ton of money. If you would like me to stop making money to write your report, let me know. I still won't do it, but I'll know more. Otherwise, I'm going to be over here making money. And he never wrote the report. Now, he was making enough money to get away with throwing down and telling his SVP to go pound sand. That's extreme. But you have to decide what you're going to do and what you're not going to do. If you want to read something on this that's a little more subtle, read, you can Google or Jason might be able to throw in a chat or any of you can an article called Selective Negligence by Brad Porter. It basically says how he got to be. He's now CEO of his own company. But when he was at Amazon, how he got into high leadership by ignoring what he was asked to do. So let's talk a little bit more about prioritization. If this is something you struggle with, consider the book, Eat That Frog. Eat That Frog is a short book. As you can see, it talks about how to stop procrastination. But it led to the single biggest improvement in my late career. And let me tell you how. What the book recommends is it says, look, there are two ways to approach your day. You can either do your task list in order hardest to easiest or easiest to hardest. Many of us wake up and we want to take it easy. We want to read a little email. Maybe go to a couple meetings. And then once we clear our plate in our mind, oh, I've done all my make work. Now I'm going to focus in the afternoon. Well, whether you're a morning person or a night owl, there's plenty of evidence that our willpower and energy declines through the day as we get drained by things. So if you go and do the couple easiest things on your to do list, by definition, what is the next thing? Harder. What's the next thing? Harder than that. The result is by the time you're low energy late in the day, you finally get to the hard thing you've been avoiding that you really need to get done. And you say, you know, I can't do this today. I don't have enough time and energy. And you put it off to tomorrow. I've done many shows of hands with crowds of leaders and I ask them how many of you right now can think of something that you know you really should have done that's important to your business or your leadership and you've been meaning to get to for one week, two weeks, three weeks, a month or more. Most people nod and like, damn, I'm going to do this. I'm like, damn, he's right. So what do you do? Well, you plan on doing your to do list from hardest to easiest. Another way to look at this is from most impactful, whether it's hard or not, do the thing that's going to have the most impact. And so do the thing that you must do. I looked at this. My metric was I tried to earn my entire paycheck in my mind by noon each day, do the thing that really mattered. And then I could put my feet up on my desk and do whatever the hell I wanted that felt nice and was easy to coast through the afternoon. An example in building this class. Originally, I happen to dislike the task of editing my slides. I don't like it because it's busy work and I don't like I get I gather feedback from my audience. I do a trial of the class and everybody gives me written feedback. And I personally find it hard to read lots of people criticizing what I just busted my butt to put together. Now, you may not have this problem. The point is, it's a hard task for me. So when I was editing these slides and wanted an example, my example that day was I wanted to avoid going through the slide edits. Instead, I did them first thing in the morning. Now, you may say that's not a huge example. Well, here's the key. If you do the hardest thing on your task list every day, you will do 250, there are 250 work days a year. You will do 250 hard things you tend to put off a year and that will change your career. So that's prioritization and procrastination. Let's talk about scaling. How do you scale? Most of you are here because you want to be leaders of leaders. For ICs, you still need to influence others. This applies. You just have to think of it through that lens. Your leaders are your freedom. The only way I was ever able to have a sane life for short periods as a director and then a VP was by having great leaders on my team who could operate independently and really could run everything without me. How do you get them? Training. You know how to do this work. You have to train up the people under you to be able to do your job. This is your key new task. If you don't, you may think of yourself as I'm an engineer, I'm a lawyer, I'm a product manager. Not anymore. You're a teacher. If you want to scale, you need to also be a teacher. So the second part is you have to lead as they need. It's situational. You can read a book, either the One Minute Manager or anything else by Ken Blanchard, that will talk about situational leadership. The key idea here is I may be a great, say, engineer, but I may be a terrible project planner. If you need me to have that skill, you may need to baby me a little bit, lead me through the basics of project management to build my skill there. We tend to think of people as, oh, Ethan is an expert. Oh, Jason is junior. That is too simplistic. Ethan is an expert at public speaking. He's a terrible artist. You have to understand what's the situation. The other thing is you want to always be stretching people, just not to the breaking point. So if you have leaders under you, you need to be pushing them enough to grow them, but not so much that they shut down. There's an idea called the challenge skill sweet spot. Too much challenge, I become anxious, afraid, and paralyzed. Too little challenge, it's too easy for me, I become bored. The sweet spot is this narrow band of growth where I know enough to do it, but I'm a little worried about it and I'm still learning. And you want to try and keep your leaders in that challenge skill sweet spot. The second thing is some of you will be struggling with trusting your leaders. What if they make a mistake? When they make a mistake, my boss still yells at me. I still look bad. I still miss my goals. Yes, true. But if you can't let your leaders operate independently, you'll be a micromanager and lose them. They won't grow and you will eventually burn out. So blueprint again, you have to let go. You have to accept that if it's done in a way that works, the fact it's not done the way you would do it is okay. And finally, get good at giving people quick feedback. Thank you for doing that. It's great. Here's one thing to consider. Here's a specific thing to do different, better, et cetera, next time. We will talk more about this later. You may be wondering, but my leaders don't want to step up like that. The people under me don't want to work that hard. Maybe, but there are ways to encourage that. You have to find out what their goals are and offer to support them. I will talk more about that later in the class. So let's talk about delegation. If you're a leader and you want to be a big leader, I love this quote that was relayed to me from Tom Taylor, who's an Amazon SVP now retired. He said, look, if you want to move up, you're going to need to stop doing your current job. You've got to be able to move to the next job. Well, that means delegating. What does executive level delegating look like? Number one, you need to delegate entire goals. This is not, hey, I need you to produce this report. Instead, it's we have a goal of generating informative reports to RVP on a monthly basis. This is now your goal. Figure it out. Start delivering the reports. Let me know if you need help or clarification. You're delegating the whole goal for an engineer or an engineering group. You have a goal to ship this software by summer. I'm here to help you with it if you need that, but it's now your goal. You go plan with your team. And the product manager, how to get it out. Let me know if you have problems at the same time, you can set check ins and guardrails. So you can say, I've given you this goal to ship by summer. If you hit anything that risks the schedule by more than two weeks, I expect you to come talk to me. That's a check in request. There's a guardrail. If you get blocked on dependencies with other teams and you can't resolve them and it costs you more than three days of trying at that point, come to me. That's how you put guardrails around your delegation so that people know because if you give someone a big goal, the first thing they think is, oh, I have to succeed. And some people will hide their struggles because they don't want to tell their boss they're not getting there. And so you have to give them the guardrails of when to come to you. Otherwise, they may go silent a long time and you'll check in with them to discover that they are far behind. A great, memorable term I learned for this that you can remember is what's called a watermelon goal. So a watermelon goal looks like a watermelon. It's green on the outside. It's bright red on the inside. Somebody's reporting, oh, yeah, I got it. I got it, Ethan. I'm on track. And then you go and actually cut open the goal and dig into the details and you find out it's all red inside and they just haven't had the way, the language and the courage to tell you that you're going to succeed. You want to avoid watermelon goals. Which brings me to point three. Develop your questioning skills. Get really good at asking questions. Asking good questions is more powerful than making statements as a leader. Asking questions, why? Why are questions more powerful? And it's ironic that today because I'm lecturing, right now I'm doing nothing but tell. If I were coaching you one on one, I'd be leading you through all of this by questions. The reason is questions make you think and they give you ownership. If I ask you what are the top three risks to the project and you list them, then they're your risks. If I tell you, hey, Ethan, I'm worried about your project. I think you need to focus on this, this and this, then it's my agenda and you feel less ownership. It's like, okay, I'll do what he thinks. You may know there's a bigger risk, but it wasn't on my list, so you're off the hook. So, action item. When this says think of three things you can delegate, it literally means think of three big things, three permanent things, not three little tasks. Three big things you can give away and other than checking in with your direct reports, never do again. Because to capitalize on everything in this class, you're going to need to take on a lot of new work that I will tell you about. And if you're still doing everything you're doing today, you won't scale. So, think really hard about this. Make a note to do it in the break or later today. We talked some about your personal expertise already. Now, I said for ICs, this is a little bit different. I'm going to talk to leaders first and I'll touch briefly on ICs. Your personal expertise is a little bit different. Your personal skills overuse is a liability. Here's the key. None of you were educated as managers. All of you went to college as engineers, lawyers, doctors, business people. You weren't educated in how to be a leader and that's not your degree. So, you have this strong muscle you built up in something else. Whenever you get scared over work, under pressure, you will tend to run to that muscle. You will also tend to run to that and ignore types of work you don't know how to do. This is human. But if you make yourself back into an IC when you're supposed to be a leader, you won't be leading anymore. So, some people say, but I don't want to let go of my expertise. Okay. But you better be using it selectively and using it by teaching others how to do something better. Let me show you how. Let's work together on this one example. Not, oh, I'll do this, I'll do that. That's critical work. I'll do it. Second, what should you be doing instead? If you want to be a big leader, you need to learn other areas. So, you need to learn. Let's say you're an engineer. Because a lot of you are. Or technical. You better learn something about product management. Something about marketing. Definitely something about how your company is financed and how the money flows. To be a member of an executive team or a member of the leadership of a big business unit, you need to have a holistic understanding of how a company runs. You can't just be narrow and put your blinders on and say, I don't know anything about that. I just write the code. I don't know anything about that. I just sell it. There's a limit to how far you can go only being in your expertise. Now, ICs. If you want to be a principal product manager or a principal, senior principal engineer, distinguished engineer, etc., etc., in any discipline, you're still going to need to know more and more how to relate with executives in other areas. You're going to have to be able to talk to an executive team with people who don't understand anywhere near your epic depth. And you're going to have to be able to talk to them. So this becomes great. You're a distinguished engineer. You architected Gmail. How are you going to explain that to the person who needs to market Gmail? Okay. That's the kind of question to think about. The last part of the right frustrates many people. I'm going to hit on it a few times. At this level, soft skills are more critical than hard skills. So your social skills, your ability to build relationships and influence will have more impact than your ability to be technically right. This frustrates people because how do we all grow up? We grew up taking exams and getting marks or grades where there was a right answer and a wrong answer. And there was no right answer. Where there was a right answer and a wrong answer. And there was no, didn't matter if you were a nice person as long as your proof was correct. As long as your analysis was good. As long as you had circled the right number at the bottom of the page. That however is not business leadership. And there's tons of proof that emotional intelligence, EQ, is what leads people to executive roles. Now, some people at this point say, oh, this is ridiculous. It means I have to suck up to people and I have to be political. No, we will talk about politics. I'm saying you have to be good at relating to people and expressing yourself. We will also talk about influence. Bottom line, true bottom line, you start putting your team's success before your own. If your team is succeeding, you are succeeding. That's what you have to focus on. If you're still stuck in what am I doing that makes me look great and feel great as opposed to what is my team doing, you will not scale in the end. Which is, by the way, why I'm a teacher. I got so into my team succeeding, I realized eventually I wanted to work on that all the time and I had to leave Amazon to be able to work all the time on helping people like you succeed. Second topic. What's it mean to be a change agent? A change agent invents and solves. Quote, the greatest danger is not being able to do what you want. Quote, the greatest danger in times of turbulence is to act with yesterday's logic from management guru Peter Drucker. I love this slide because I made it over a year ago and it's still relevant. Leaders need to be able to do two things besides run their business. They need to be able to handle surprises and create the new. So I said every picture here represents something real. Well, the top picture represented past tense war in Ukraine as a challenge and a global change. But now I could say war in Gaza. Changes keep coming. Who could predict, who could plan on the Hamas attacks in Gaza and then the Israeli responds to them? Nobody could plan for that. But it happened. The next one is the hard economy. We've had a hard economy for a couple years. We know those come, but we never know when. The third one is COVID and now return to office. Surprises, surprises, surprises change. Well, if you're the leader, how are you going to incent your team if you're in a return to office situation to come in, for example, how are you going to manage through that? Maybe you don't want to return to office yourself. Then there's creating the new invention. So three pictures here, iPhone classic invention, Tesla, super classic invention, Kindle. I can't think of a great way to represent AI. But clearly that's the next disruptor, right? Chat, GPT, et cetera. So as a leader, you're expected to both be inventing these things and applying them, adapting to them. You can't just wait for orders. You want to be on the leading edge of that wave to harness them for business value. That's what gets you promoted. So let's go a little deeper. How did I do this? I believe you can systematically innovate. Now I'm going to build. I haven't done it yet. I'm going to build a whole class on this one slide. But here's the summary. First, facts. At Amazon, I had over 70 patents issued. One of those, which I'll tell you a story about in a second, is a patent on drones. Now, if you listen to my career, I never worked in the drone group. So how on earth did I invent something so relevant? I actually have quite a few drone and robotics patents. But there's one I'll tell you about. How did I invent in an area I didn't even work in? The process here is you have to know something about an area and then spend real-time thinking. What's the point here? If I pick on some of you that I can see and I say, oh, Dennis and Andrea, we're going to let's invent, let's form a company. We're going to make cancer drugs. Well, unless one of you happens to be a chemist or a botanist or a doctor, we have the problem that none of us knows anything about cancer treatment. We're unlikely to invent cancer treatment drugs without knowing, without the requisite body of knowledge. So step one is you need to study your area systematically to relatively be on the cutting edge of the knowledge. Then you need to actually spend time thinking. What does this mean? Well, question. You just finished a week. Last week, how many silent hours did you spend without your phone, undistracted, thinking about what you could innovate or invent that would disrupt and change your business? My guess is zero. When I poll audiences, it's almost always zero. The cool thing here is you don't need very much time. If you spend one hour a month, which is what I call the one sacred hour, if you spend one hour a month actually thinking, alone, concentrating on what do I know that I could put together to invent, most of my patents were invented in that one hour a month, and I will explain that more in a second. But the reason you don't need a lot more is only a few good ideas can take decades to work through. So for example, Amazon Prime, all of you at least know of Prime. Prime is a 20 plus year old program that is still growing and changing. Similarly, electric cars, the idea Tesla is going to build a charging network across the US. Oh, we should build a charging network if we're going to have cars. Well, that takes years to do. So you don't need that many good ideas to be seen as innovative. You need a few. Now, the quick story of the drone. Here's the story of the drone patent and how I did it. I happen to like war history. It's just something I know a lot about, and therefore, I know about aircraft carriers in World War II. Second, I was working on a PhD in robotics. So even though that information is almost 30 years out of date, I've thought a little bit about robots and drones for a long time. How did I bring these together? Amazon wants to deliver packages by drone. It's very hard to fly a drone a long distance from a warehouse that may be tens of miles away from the customer. So I thought, huh, is there a way to build a drone aircraft carrier? Once I had that mental image, it was pretty easy to conceive of a rolling box truck, like a UPS truck or now an Amazon van that has an open roof, and the drones come in and out and pick up things and take them to the doorways as the truck rolls slowly through the neighborhood. There are a lot of advantages to this. If somebody, A, the flights are very short. B, if anything goes wrong, there's a human being nearby. The point is, that's how I came up with that patent. I added two ideas together. Regional delivery by truck and aircraft carriers for drones became a patent. That's a picture from the patent. You can invent by coming up with something totally new. Most people invent things by combining or modifying what already exists. And if you just spend some time thinking about your business, you can probably do this. Now, second part of innovation. Not every innovation will work. I will talk about some of my failures, but the way you do a faster way to grow a business, which is what you're expected to do as a leader, is actually to invent nothing. Instead, go look at what is working and then make more of it. Example, this class. I was coaching people. Lots of people exactly like you were coming to me wanting coaching on how to get from senior manager to executive. I couldn't coach them all. There was all this demand. So I thought, you know what? How can I scale this? I'll make a class. And now, as opposed to, I'm going to spend, say, seven hours talking this weekend. If I did one-on-ones, I could talk to seven leaders for an hour. For an hour apiece. Instead, I can talk to a hundred of you for seven hours apiece. Is it as deep and personal? Not quite, but it scales way more and it still gives you tremendous benefits. And by the way, is also cheaper. So number one is look at what's working. Oh, people are stuck with this problem. How can I double down? The other way is to do a lot of tests, try a lot of things. So if you know my history, for example, in coming to where you probably found me on LinkedIn, I tried streaming on Twitch. I tried making YouTube videos. I tested a bunch of things and I found out what would work. Do not get suckered into the thought that you have the perfect idea. Test it. So what is my secret weapon? My secret weapon is this thing from a Stanford professor, Roger von Oak, called the Creative Whack Pack. It's a pack of cards also available as a 399 app on your phone that will break you out of your frozen thinking. If you don't think you're an inventive person, just try it. Take this app, which you can get in 10 seconds on your phone, pay your four bucks. Take an hour this afternoon and start flipping through the prompts and thinking about the challenges you face at your business. And try to tell me tomorrow, you know, I did what you said and I had zero new ideas. I won't be hearing from any of you. I'm keeping us moving because we're already an hour in. Congratulations. I want to talk about being a trusted decision maker. I love this quote because I got it from a politician, but at least this politician understands what trust looks like. It said, trust is built with consistency. To become trusted by your management, you have to consistently perform and have consistent good judgment. Now, you might say, why is trust required? Well, let's think this through. If I'm your leader and I'm considering moving you up into a bigger role, how could I possibly do that if I don't inherently trust you to make good decisions? I just can't. You wouldn't do it. You wouldn't promote anybody under you that you thought, well, even a really good engineer or a really good product manager, but boy, he makes some terrible calls. You'd never do that. You'd never do it. Same thing for you. So what does this look like? As I just said, trust is essential for promotion. But what else is essential for promotion? And we're going to talk about it shortly is showing that you have long-term strategy chops and that you're willing to take, you're able to take calculated risks well. And those depend on you having that good judgment. So there's this catch-22 of I need to be trusted as usually doing things right, but I also can't play everything safe because why? If all of you play everything safe, there's a hundred and some of you here. Some of your competition will take gambles, maybe smart gambles, maybe dumb gambles. The problem is there's enough of them that even if they take dumb gambles, some of them will win. And so while you're busy playing it safe, your competitor gets a win because they got lucky or because they were smart. Either way, playing it safe will not get you there. We'll talk more about that. Let's take one minute and review the basics of decision-making science that come from my favorite overall book to recommend, which will be on the next slide. So to make good decisions, there is actually some science around how to do it. Summarize very briefly. It's these four steps. First, get as many alternatives on the table as you can. Do not fixate on your first idea. It's the same thing I said on plant a lot of seeds when you're trying to invent. Before you make a critical decision, come up with a lot of alternatives. Example, my wife and I have chosen to move. We just bought a different home. We visited a lot of homes first to see what we wanted alternatives. Okay. Second thing, get your data. Most of you understand this step two is what a lot of you understand well, which is great. But try to get hard data. When you can't get hard data or in addition to hard data, ask experts, consult people who have experience because experience is very valuable. And sometimes you can't get all the data you want. The third thing is tests. So for example, I talked about building this class. The very first version of this class was run as a test. I actually put out a note on LinkedIn that said, if I built a class, who would sign up? So I didn't build a class until a hundred people said they would sign up. So I tested the waters before I invested. Now that's a simple example, but it makes the point. How can you design a test? Okay. Step three, once you have your data and you've run your tests, you try to get space from your emotions. Emotions are very valuable in business for driving energy. They aren't very good for making clear headed decisions. So you want to get space as much as you can away from the emotional content. One great way to do this is to ask a year from now, what's going to look right. It gets you away from, well, my boss wants an answer tomorrow, or this is due at the customer in two weeks. What shortcuts can we take? You can ask, how is this going to look a year from now? Finally, the biggest step most people miss plan to undo it. How are you going to figure out if your idea works? You make a plan, you start down whatever your plan is, you make a decision. How are you going to check in and measure is this decision working out? Or do we need to change course or just straight out abandon course? It is very possible once you think about it. Let's say you take a new job at a company, you think it's going to be a great job. You can totally set a checkpoint to say, you know, at three months, I'm going to take a Saturday for two hours, talk to my significant other and see, am I happy at this new job? Is it what I was promised or is the company actually rotten internally? If you don't do that, you may just plod along without taking the chance to reverse course. This book, you'll get a lot of book recommendations in this class. Why? Because books give you eight hours of content and that's all I can give you this weekend. So if you read the books, you double your content for another 20 bucks. But this book is my single most recommended book. It's about how to make better decisions. And if you can read the subtitle, this is how to make better choices in life and work. The reason I highly recommend this book is it will help you in both your personal life and your professional life. It will make you a better leader and it will make you a happier human. And it's an easy read for those three reasons. It's my most recommended book and I have never had anybody read this book and come back and say, man, I learned nothing from that. Probably there's a few people who have read it who can chime in and chat and say, yes, it's a good book. I welcome you all to keep engaging in chat, even though I can't look at it. That brings us to our first break. I've powered through things in an hour and five minutes because we have a lot to cover. It's 10.05. We're going to stop. And Jason, you can go ahead and stop the recording. So coming out of our break, I'll just remind you, you have to have a follow-up plan for this course of what you're going to do differently. If you come to the course and listen to me, but make no changes, you'll get nothing different as a result. And you have to ask yourself, how are you going to stick to those changes? A lot of you will do a lot of things different Monday, but Monday, a month from now, you'll be the same person. I don't want that for you, but that's your part of the work. Okay. So we just covered what did you do. We're now going to go deeper into how do you lead your team? Now, of course, part of leading your team still involves you. So if you feel like I'm talking about what do you do, I am, but it's how you lead your team. We're also going to talk about two deep areas. These ones listed in green, how to know where you stand and how to get unstuck. So we've added, since we first built this course, these deep areas of specific, they all begin how to, because they're focused on actions you can take right down to specific wording we recommend you can use or adapt to your situation. So if you feel I've been talking theory so far and giving you a lot of you should, and you need to, this is going to be, this is exactly how. So let's jump into that. Your team executes with little oversight. So as your VP, I, even though I audit, even though I dive deep, I can't worry about if you have a hundred people, 200 people, you run an offshore office for me. I had a, a senior manager who became a director who ran an office in Bangalore with 400 people in it. I had to leave that to limited oversight and trust that the work was getting done. If he wasn't the right leader, it's not coach him, it's replace him. Take calculated risks. You have to stand out. We'll talk about how to do that systematically and win on a batting average. You will fail. We'll also talk about how to manage those failures. And finally, in the end, all of this comes down to how many results you deliver, how much impact you have for the company. Results are what matter and your team is your vehicle for your results. You can't do all the work your team can. So let's get into it. What's it mean to execute with little oversight? Well, you have to lead your people because your team has to execute with little oversight from you and you and your team have to have little oversight from me. I love this quote. Teddy Roosevelt is probably blurred, but his picture is on the wall behind me. People don't care how much you know until they know how much you care. This goes back to emotional intelligence. Your team wants to know that you're with them, you're behind them, you're invested in them, you're leading them in the right direction. Then they want to know that you're really smart and have the right technical or business or financial answers, product answers. I'm not here, can't be here to teach you how to manage. But let's talk quickly about a few of the pieces of management that if you don't have them down, you need to shore up. You're a leader, you need to hire and retain people. If you're a senior IC, you still need to be advising on who are the right hires and helping retain the key talent by mentoring them so that you don't get off the hook with this. You do get off the hook if you're an IC from managing. You have to manage well. Managing well means take care and make sure all of the basics of management are handled. The performance reviews, the raises, the team structure, you've got to be on top of that. Motivate. This one's huge. Remember, in the modern world, people don't actually have to work. If they want a job, they have to show up and they have to move some papers around. But you only get their best work if they want to give it to you. And so I can be spending my mental energy, and all of you know people like this in your companies, if not on your teams, I can be spending my mental energy figuring out how to be a quiet quitter and do the least I can. Or I can be spending my mental energy trying to hit a goal that I'm inspired to hit. You move forward when your team wants to move you forward. Finally, collaboration. Nothing gets done in the modern world without partnerships. Tiny example, Jason and I are collaborators. We work together to produce this course and my newsletter and all kinds of things. If I couldn't collaborate, I couldn't do as much. Giant example in corporations, when Amazon launched, they were doing a lot of work. Amazon launched its first business in Italy and Spain. It took about 100 teams working together to spin up new countries at that time. Collaboration. So how do you know what kind of job you're doing? How do you get an understanding of are you succeeding with your boss and is your team succeeding? Hopefully you have a good manager who gives you good feedback. But we're going to talk a lot about what if that doesn't happen. That's the section how to know where you stand as a leader. How are you doing? But here's the quick summary slide. First, you should ask. Not just ask your manager, by the way. You can ask your peers. You can go to your peers and say, I'd like some feedback. We'll talk about that more deeply. You can ask your team for upward feedback. You can ask your key direct reports. And don't just wait for the annual review where you get a few things in writing. Have an actual conversation. How do you do it? You give permission. Okay. You have to say, I want your feedback. I promise to take it well. I want to improve myself. I need your help. And you say thanks. You need to say thanks. Whenever anyone gives you feedback, do not challenge it. We'll talk about that as well. Instead, you say thank you. Even if you disagree with it. You can then clarify. Okay. You don't have to just blanket accept it, but do not argue. There's a difference. Listen carefully. What does this mean? If I give you feedback, accept that you have a problem. Now, don't mishear me. You may think I'm saying that all of my feedback is valid. No. But the fact that I think something about you. So let's say someone says to me, Ethan, you and your team are disorganized. I may feel that's complete bullshit that I have the tightest run ship on earth. But now I do have a problem. That person has a perception of me and my team that we're disorganized. You have to address that if they're a relevant stakeholder. You have to figure out why do they think that and what could we change if anything. Now, I've given you a tool that can be dangerous. People love this. They say, oh, Ethan, now I get it. You're right. All that criticism my boss has given me. It's not that I have any flaws. It's that he has perception problems. Dangerous. You can't. The right way to do this is to first look at yourself and consider what you could do better. Then look at others and consider where might they be. Stuck in their own heads and agenda and I need to manage their perception. If you look online following me over time, you will see I practice public apology there when I screw up. It's my way of showing that I'm listening to feedback. And if there's something I see that someone gives me feedback on that I can do better, I go and do it. So for example, super timely. This morning I made a post where I recommended five people that creators might want to follow. The very first comment out of the gate was from a woman who said there are no women on this list. Are there no women worth following? I didn't purposefully leave women off the list. But in fact, I did have zero women on it. So I committed and said, you know what? That's great. Let's make a list of women, female leaders to follow. And I'll post that soon. The point is, listen. Now, sometimes the feedback's not valid. I get feedback on LinkedIn and feedback elsewhere that when I digest it and really think about it, I decide is not my issue. Then I just have to decide what to do with those perceptions. Moving on though, once you listen, once you talk to people internally and get the feedback, as I did by posting and saying, let's compile a list of women and then I'll recommend them, I'm closing the loop. I'm showing change and that builds relationships. I don't know if the woman who said where are the women on this list will be satisfied with what I've done or not, but there are good odds that should be like, okay, this guy's decent. Sure. He left. He left women off his first list, but he acknowledged that and has jumped on addressing it. Seems like a good guy. I'll bet she's more positively disposed. I can't guarantee that. Your action here. Make your own plan for a 360. People pay me a lot of money when I used to do this. I don't do it anymore to do a 360 for them. With an executive, I would go around and talk to their boss and all their peers and so on. This is like for someone who's already a VP or already a director, but you can do this all yourself. You can identify your key stakeholders and go ask them for feedback. Now let's go deeper in all of this. How do you know where you stand? How do you know where you stand? How do you know where you stand today? Because some of you tell me I'm stuck, but I don't know where I'm stuck. And I don't know what the critical element is. Well, how do you know where you're standing? First, there are four methods to figure out how you know where you stand. Method one, ask your manager. Why? Your manager is the most single, most influential person in your career progress. Some people will say, well, I can't ask. I'm, you know, they don't tell me the truth. Well, that's a warning sign. You may be working for a bad manager and you may need to make some changes if you can't get by it another way. Another thing people complain to me is they say, well, my manager always says the same thing. They say, oh, it's going great. Be patient. Keep it up. Sort of this platitude, this zero content. It's you're doing a great job. Keep it up. Not actionable. What do you do? Four steps. First, you tell your manager in advance, hey, I'm going to be coming to you in two weeks asking for some feedback on my performance, how to grow. Could you use the next two weeks to observe my performance and take notes? Why do you do this? I like to coach people, but sometimes people would walk in my office for a one-on-one and say, hey, Ethan, this week I want some feedback on my performance. Well, they're catching me completely cold. So I have to roll my eyes up in my head and try to figure out what is the most relevant thing to tell them on the spot and how to do that in a way that's nice and inspiring, not critical. You're putting your manager in a very hard spot. So give them some prep time. Second, some managers, even though they should not be, really struggle to give good feedback. You might think, well, it's not my problem to manage their defensiveness or weakness. Well, it is your problem if you want good feedback. So make them comfortable. Tell them, I promise I want to get better. If you can give me actionable feedback with specific examples, I will take it well, even if I don't fully agree, and I will work to be better because that's my goal. Explain clearly why you need more than going great, keep it up. Just explain, hey, manager, in order to improve, I need some specifics. I'm really glad that you think I'm doing a great job, but I can't grow without more than that. And you are the person with the most influence on my career. And then you push. Now, sometimes your manager doesn't answer. So here's your example language, right? Sometimes they still don't give you good feedback. That's why there are three more methods, but here's example language. You could say, I'm glad you're pleased, but to grow and improve, I really need specifics. I promise I'm open to them. Will not take it personally or get offended. Can you give me something specific to focus on? Make this language your own. You don't have to quote me, but this is the idea all packaged in a few sentences. Remember, you'll get these slides. You don't have to write it down exactly as it is. So what's method two? Go around and ask your peers. Ask your skip level. Here, what you're trying to do is get a broader perspective. Your manager, even if you have a good manager, is not a perfect person and has only their view with only their biases. So you're looking for all stakeholders who can say no to your promotion and to your work. You're looking for people who are willing to listen to you. You're looking for people who can say no to your promotion and to your team's success. You're also sanity checking for misjudgment. What do I mean here? If your manager says, hey, Ethan, you're disorganized, and I think I'm not disorganized. I'm very organized, I'm being misjudged. Well, if three of my peers also say, Ethan, you do great work, but boy, you seem like a hot mess. Your team's all over the place. that's you know if one person says it it may be they have a perception problem if three out of four people say it even if you don't like it you need to address it as as a growth area your standard asks your example wording is here I'm trying to make sure I do my best work for all my customers or stakeholders fill in whatever whoever you're talking to can you give me a little feedback on what I should do well what I do well and what I should change this is another relevant point you don't just have to ask for areas to correct people get promoted more for their superpowers and strengths than for getting rid of every possible flaw they get promoted for being great and hyper valuable at a few things so you can ask what do I do well what would what could what should I do even more of that you really value what is my superpower these are great questions to ask third way to know where you stand in the promotion process and how you stack rank how are you being evaluated by your manager the first way is feedback from your manager the second way is feedback from your peers and skip level the third way is where's your manager putting their time who is getting moved up why can you figure out why people say oh I don't know why well we'll talk about that who is not getting moved up why these whys can be observed yes no one ever comes you and says hey Ethan we promoted Jason instead he's better than you in ways a B and C no one's gonna do that but I can look at Jason's performance and how it differs from mine what is Jason known for what is Jason delivered I can also look we'll pick someone else hopefully there's no one here named Fred if there is a Fred I'm sorry it's not you Fred didn't get promoted Fred has more experience than me more time why not what are Fred's gaps so what can you copy what can you avoid that's your third way to know where you stand in this promotion process in this growth process in the path to executive what's the fourth way it's even more indirect where's the investment going who's getting the cool new projects who's getting the resources the headcount who's getting sent to training right some of you are here because your company paid for this maven session most of you paid for it yourself thank you but who's getting sent to training or to conferences who's getting exposure if it's not you who's getting this investment who is and why now this why requires deduction and observation it also often leads people to say well yeah Ethan got all of that exposure because he sucks up to the boss no not necessarily true what it is is I've learned what the boss likes what the manager needs in a relationship and I figured out how to deliver that it doesn't mean it might be I'm also a kiss-up someone who's a yes person and my boss is shallow that's a different learning that's also valuable to you it tells you whether or not you want to stay with that manager but it might not be true and we'll talk about that in politics so these are four specific ways you can go in Monday morning and start figuring out where you stand relative to the others around you and in your company on your paths in the next level a couple of books that will help by the way if you want to scale your team you should be doing all of these same things for your team they want all the same things you do remember this will this will frustrate you but it's true if I could go talk to each of your direct reports those of you who manage large teams and have a bunch of managers under you they would say oh wow you have a class on being stuck I am stuck I'm not getting the right feedback from my manager and that's you so a couple of books to help you with this radical candor incredibly famous millions of copies sold Kim Scott worked at I think meta and then Apple I may have that slightly wrong in any case this is kind of her personal story of how to give really good feedback by being very direct she has a method but but it's more story than method if you want the really method based version crucial conversations over five million copies sold this is a detailed somewhat complicated way to talk to anybody about any hard topic including feedback so between one of these two books or both I've of course read them both you ought to be able to figure out how to both get feedback and give it speaking of which this is a perfect place for me to make the point that everything I'm teaching you to do to get to the next level has an analog that you want to be helping your leaders do it will make them better leaders which will make your job easier so everything in this class that you're taking notes of I want I need to etc to get up to the next level you can have a second thought which is what should I be doing for my directs and in my team to develop them in line with this course what would I need to do if they took this course and came and asked me about it I know it seems like a lot of work but your team is your tool to move up it's not that you're using them it's that you make them great and that makes you great in the process win-win not win-lose okay so that's how to know where you stand now I'm stuck I've been here a while I'm not getting the investment how do I get unstuck what are the specifics of breaking out first thing judgments are sticky they're not just sticky they're scientifically shown to be sticky once someone forms an impression of you they will tend to reinforce that impression because what is changing their impression of you mean if you think I'm a bad guy because of something I did and then you change that impression later you have to admit to yourself you were wrong about me people don't like to admit they're wrong they'd rather work around it they'd rather find an excuse and I will talk about that so here are some common sticky assessments that freeze you in place in your career Fred is study and reliable you might think this is a compliment it is not as a leader none of you if we look at the famous leaders in tech or elsewhere of all the words you would apply whether to Zuckerberg or Sergey Brin or Satya Nadella or Tim Cook study and reliable is not what gets you to the top entrepreneurs are not is study and reliable they may have some of those traits but that isn't how they get labeled what study and reliable means is you're doing a great job at this level we're gonna keep giving you work and we'll give you three to five percent raises a year and we love having you here because you crank out the work but we haven't seen any spark of genius or innovation or differentiation that leads us to think we need you in the boardroom that's where study and reliable is a problem it's great to have those traits but you can't be you can't be characterized that way I often tell people I coach another non-compliment I tell them Fred you are a nice guy you doesn't mean you have to be a jerk but being known as a nice guy it's kind of like the dating friend zone you'll get invited to all the parties but you will not get married so what are smothers we're gonna talk about executive presence but Sarah lacks executive presence this one drives people nuts because it's so nonspecific what is executive presence what do I change but some of you here will have gotten the feedback well now you don't have enough executive presence we're gonna talk about how to get out of that somebody doesn't think big regime in this case doesn't think big what's this mean it means again it's like study and reliable doing great work at this level not thinking at the next level not not changing the company for the better only executing the last one is Maria is hard to work with Ethan is hard to work with if your label is hard to work with it means you may get a lot done but people don't like you and relationship is key because if I'm your skip level for example and I'm considering elevating you to be a peer of your current boss do I want to add someone to my team that's known to be hard to work with so the key point here is you have to know where you're stuck and then you're gonna have to make some kind of change that change is either going to be change the trait or change to a company where that trait is valued so here's a very common trap that when we started someone came off mute at my request and they talked about being stuck in this trap that they're working hard and hoping to be noticed they are not good they they haven't figured out how to self promote which we will address in the Q&A section what I want to address right now is if you're one of these people who can admit that you're working hard and hoping to be noticed you expect to be noticed you say to yourself it's a meritocracy I'm doing the best work why am I not being recognized because if we if if if this company is true to its value and it values the best work I'm doing that the problem is now you get mad you see someone who's better at promoting themselves get moved up and you're like this isn't right I won't do that well this is cutting off your own nose despite your face okay everyone at your level is doing pretty good work you may honestly believe you're doing the best work but if you're at any sort of high quality company with good competition they're also doing good work which means if they're doing stuff to make sure they're noticed either naturally or unnaturally and you're not the problem is as a boss I only have so much time I try to evaluate everyone fairly but if one person is serving their list of accomplishments to me on a silver platter week after week and the other person is laboring quietly in obscurity I may make mistakes and that's if I'm a good boss okay and what if I'm not second we expect our executives to do more than just hard work you have to do all the other stuff we covered before you have to innovate you have to take risks you have to have good judgment why those are what we need at the executive level and we can find people who do those so just grinding away alone is not enough so lots of books the book that is most on point for this class in general is called what got you here won't get you there by Marshall Goldsmith now if you have one of the specific problems we end up talking about executive presence making good decisions etc read the books on your specific problem if you come out the end of this class and you're like okay didn't find any critical problem this is the book on the whole idea of transitioning from a successful mid-level leader to really the top and it's the classic read this now fresh start I'm stuck I can't turn around my impression I've been labeled it may be worth see changing people's impressions is hard taking a fresh start the beautiful butterfly image seems appealing go somewhere else get a clean start that can be a good idea but got to fix your problems first I have a coaching client really like him great guy he knows I like him we're friends now but he's on his third job if I named his companies they're all companies you absolutely know how to executive level low-level executive job at company one fired got a higher level executive job at company two good for him fired got an executive job during the hard times of the down economy at company three got himself into trouble for the same behavior finally seeing the pattern he's really working on himself but how much does that cost him how many years of career how many setbacks because he went down in title after the after the last job so you may think well I don't have that well be careful all of us have growth areas and if we run away if we don't change what we're doing we're likely to get right back into the same situation in the next growth the next company I didn't cover in enough detail why impressions are sticky let me explain briefly think about someone you know and dislike for whatever reason if you hear that person has done something good what's the first thing you think you tend to think huh that's not like them I wonder what they were up to what's their hidden motive that person's a jerk what that's unusual I wonder what they're scheming that's how we think about it we don't change our mind is there I must have been mistaken they're a great person instead we think what am I missing because I know they're up to something now we go the other way someone you like someone you respect someone you think highly of does something not great I'm not talking about horrible like they're found guilty of murder that might change your opinion but they do something a little slimy or a little sloppy what do you think huh that's not like Ethan he must be having a bad day I wonder what's going on in his life I better check in on it this is why impressions are hard to change once the impression is formed it reinforces itself and if we do these things you can bet that the management above you doesn't now is it possible to change the impression it is it's overwhelming evidence and showing lots of data and not being in too deep of a hole if you're really really in a deep hole you're better off with a fresh start which is why this is here all right clicked in the wrong place okay another way to win over your manager to change your impression I have a whole class on this it's called the growth and promotion recipe there's a blog article called the magic loop you can go read the key is offered to help here's a quiz most of your managers a few of your ICs how often do members of your team walk into your office and ask you hey boss I'm a little bit ahead this week I've got my work done what could I do to help you what do you need a hand with I just talked to one of my managers from over 10 years ago he said Ethan you're one of the few people who ever did that for me I've pulled hundreds of managers on this somebody in chat says nope none okay so Ramesh you don't need to come off mute but I'll make this point if if one member of your team then comes into your office and says hey Ramesh I know you're under a lot of pressure I got a little bit of head can I help you is there something I can do for you how much is that going to change your impression of them and yes some of you have had this happen a few times which is great but if someone's coming to your office quarterly and saying can I give you a hand what do you need ah that people help those people who help them it's social engineering it's human so there's a lot of things you can do to help you can take on new projects you can lead a hiring charge you can draft documents it really doesn't matter the point is you're building a relationship and relationships you want your manager to be your sponsor this is how I think of it I think of it in cold calculus I'm not a cold person but I think of it mathematically here I'm your boss you want me to invest extra time in your career the way I always think about this is if I take another half hour to work on your career with you I'm taking it away from my family why would I do that well because you're putting in half an hour or more to help me if you're helping me then I have more time and I will help you it's not that I'm a jerk it's that my time is limited I'm already very busy and your manager is the same so help them they'll help you ah as someone else I love this Elizabeth Elizabeth says I love that Elizabeth thank you I went in my manager office and told him I was bored it's not the best way to go ask for extra but it is very effective man I'm bored to death do we have any interesting work around here it's a little edgy but something will happen the other way to get unstuck is just talk to your manager super directly ah you can also talk to your skip the simple language here is hey manager my career is naturally important to me that's normal nothing to be shamed of but I don't seem to be progressing here to stay I need to break through the blockage can you tell me specifically what I need to do this is the straight up the middle veiled threat to quit now you got to be willing to understand yeah you can soften the language you can make it even hard harsher but it's just putting them in it's a bit of an ultimatum of saying look I'm not just gonna sit here see I once had a manager I wanted to change jobs in Amazon as a VP I wanted to go to a different job he wanted me to stay in my current job why it was convenient for him I was doing a hard job and backfilling me was gonna be a pain in his butt so he was resisting moving me it wasn't until I said you need to understand I am leaving this job the only thing you have a say in is whether I take another job in your team that I'm interested in that you've told me no or I leave your team there is no choice stay in this job there's go to another job in your team go to another job in Amazon or leave Amazon pick then you know what I was in the job I wanted the next day but it wasn't until I made clear that like just keeping me in in bondage not that he was being that harsh but that's the way a clear way to look at it wasn't an option okay you can do the same thing with your skip level I call the skip level skip skip I know where I know to move up I need your support true we'll talk about that more later what more will you need to see specifically to feel good advocating for me just find out what's the skip need to see to advocate for you and I love the word advocate because that's what you're asking for see in that ultimate promotion room where the decision gets made your manager may or may not be there but your manager is definitely not the top person it's gonna be the skip level in their peers or higher so you need your skip on board all right so deep breath we covered how to know where you stand and how to get unstuck we're now gonna go to calculated risks most decisions should probably be made with 70% of the information if you wait for 90% you're being too slow I quote Bezos summon here because I know him best of the big famous tech leaders but this idea is echoed many places he also said related to this big companies are good at making good decisions but they make them too slowly speed matters in business you've got to move faster he didn't say all of this he said they make them too slowly and that for Amazon to succeed they had to be good at making fast so we're gonna talk about how to do that but the point is your desire to be right has to be balanced by the fact that your competitors are moving quickly and so you have to decide when to cut and take risk I'm gonna try and help guide you a how to do that and B how to recover when it doesn't go right so how do you take calculated risks well well remember the book decisive and everything about decision tools the first thing is get good at analyzing decisions so that your risks are accurate I have an acquaintance who is a retired two-star general from the US military he said the way the military looks at this because war has risk is take risk but never gamble what are they what's the difference between taking a risk and gambling in their language what they mean is at a risk a you you think you know the odds and B you've done everything you can within reason to line them up in your favor whereas gambling is just saying I don't know let's just go so do good decision-making try to test things I've given you some examples of testing there are many many changes that are reversible there's an Amazon lesson here that applies to everyone it's not in any way Amazon specific it's the idea of is a door a one-way door or a two-way door so we all know those doors on like movie theaters that are fire exits that you can go out but they lock behind you and then you're out this is any time you leave a concert venue and they say ticket isn't good for re-entry it's a one-way door to leave the concert two-way door means we can change this so a classic example on this is pricing it's very easy to lower a price it's very hard to raise it so let's say well we'll take Amazon Prime as an example if you're a prime member and it comes out tomorrow prime I think now in the US is $139 it comes out tomorrow that the price is going down to $99 who's gonna be sad nobody right it's very easy lower price it's very hard it's a one-way door if you want to raise price if they want to come back tomorrow and say you know it's gonna go up for 139 to 199 a lot of people are going to be mad and some of them are going to stop subscribing so pricing in one direction is a one-way door what does that mean it means as an example if you have to determine the price for something start high and lower it do not start low and raise it the second thing to understand there are some risks that are controllable and there are some that are uncontrollable focus only on the risks you have control over so remember I cited like the war in Ukraine and the war in Gaza and COVID you cannot control when these things arise you can control your backup plan you can ask if the global supply chain is disrupted how would we adapt what's our plan you can do that companies have what are called disaster recovery plans but you can't control when those things will happen so if you want to take a good risk focus on what you can control second focus on the problem not the request so what does this mean this is the classic example you've probably heard of if you would ask most people in the year 1900 what they needed for transportation they would have said something like a faster horse that doesn't get tired as soon they would not have said a car because it wasn't in their world if you went to someone in the 1960s and said what do you need in your kitchen they'd have said a hotter oven not a microwave because it wasn't in their world so the way to take a risk is make sure you're solving the problem not just focusing on what you're being asked for because what you're being asked for leads to incrementality versus focusing on the problem can lead to a revolutionary difference now I just note even though I had a very good career if I think of a single regret in my career it's that I was too risk-averse I was too slow to maybe change companies when I had opportunities not that I recommend job hopping but there is merit to moving if you're stuck at the same time I also waited a long time to leave Amazon and step out on my own which I enjoy very much I love the Amazon but I'm doing even better now um and I regret not pushing for different projects think about how you can push the risk curve probably most of you are conservative and a little bit afraid and since it seems like a hard economy a lot of your thought is oh I don't want to do that I might lose my job depends on how fast you want to move up depends on losing a job is recoverable I got laid off twice including once in a very bad economy taking risk is how you move forward and I will tell a couple stories of that right now so where did I take risks number one quick story when I started Prime Video it was a download video service because the internet wasn't fast enough for streaming but it was just on Amazon you could download things to a PC and use your Amazon client TiVo came to us the DVR company came to us and said hey you've got this neat service would you be willing to download videos to our devices to our you know to our customers let them buy from you and download to us we got to the meeting where the decision was going to be made on this and the the room was split my boss and my business partner were there and our SVP was there we put all the cards on the table and the SVP said you know this deal is hard to decide on there's not much money involved we're not going to make very much off of it but no partnership is perfect overall because it's a distraction from focusing on our product I wouldn't do this but I'm gonna leave it up to the team so he kind of tossed it back to us he said his opinion was he wouldn't do it now I felt differently I had calculated that it would only take seven percent of my engineering resources for the year to deliver and support this project so I spoke up and said well I'm the leader on this team you've told me to take strong leadership of the product it's only going to take seven percent of my resources so I had my facts right and I stayed in them and I said unless keywords I remember the mic yesterday unless you order me not to I'm doing this nobody ordered me not to we did it turns out customers loved it so the product worked I built it I my team my team built it shipped it and it worked customers then liked it so great I made a gamble it worked ah but sometimes luck plays a factor what I didn't anticipate this is long ago when smart TVs were new smart TVs didn't have all the streaming services on them they had none Sony Panasonic Samsung Vizio they all showed up at our door within a few weeks saying hey we see what you're doing with TiVo could you do that on our TV and suddenly we went from being a download service to PCs to being in everyone's living room via these new smart TVs ah so I got lucky great now where does taking this risk matter I was a senior manager like many of you are here today I got promoted to director and I got to see my document after that my boss was leaving the company he said here you might as well read what we had to say the key line in that document was written by a business leader who said well we should promote Ethan because you know without him we wouldn't have TiVo that was the line that carried the document is we were all gonna say no to this deal and he stepped out on a limb he proved he has good judgment and we should promote him so I made it to director two years into my time at Amazon and by the way I'm gonna I'm gonna make a lot of Amazonians really mad now when I got promoted to director I had 22 total reports most of you are like what I have 85 reports and I'm being told I don't have enough people or I don't have the right scope well times were different but that's the key example now yeah somebody says my director has 112 exactly yeah so and I see a lot of you talking about what it takes and yes you can't I could not even get an l7 job with my 22 reports now I understand that the company has grown a lot okay and by the way you're seeing this in a lot of companies of the the many of you are not from Amazon I don't want to be Amazon over specific the very big companies have higher standards now I joined a company that had 14,000 employees and now it has close to 2 million different world okay so what happens when this goes wrong if you're gonna take risks you better know how to manage them when they go wrong so some of you have read this story I will go through it briefly though for the majority who have not a few years ago well quite a few years ago now I was now a director I've been a director for several years I was going for my VP role and I was launching Amazon's app store it used to be that when we launched things at Amazon Jeff would write what was called a Jeff letter he would take down the home page of the website and replace it with what looked like a business letter that said dear customers we're very happy to announce this new thing today and here's what it does and here's why you're gonna love it so we were preparing to launch the Amazon App Store and we had this product we had a special feature in the product that Jeff really loved he wanted to write all about it and it was gonna go out on a Friday morning and the idea was it was gonna go out on Friday morning um right before the stock market opened so like 6 a.m. Pacific 9 a.m. Eastern was when it's supposed to go live so mistake number one it's not the key mistake but mistake number one was we agreed to launch it overnight so my team and I stayed up all night getting this launch done and the reason this will turn out to be a mistake is we were all tired when the problems hit but we started launching there's some problem it's not quite working now I'm an engineer at heart even though I've mostly been a manager everyone technical will definitely understand this they'll understand that when you have a bug you always think you've almost got it you're always debugging you're like we're on the trail we're close we're gonna figure this out so Jeff wakes up we've worked all night Jeff wakes up and he notices that this letter isn't up yet because the service isn't live yet so he emails me as well as copying all my management everybody else and says hey where's the letter and I'm thinking it's 6 a.m. I write him back and I say um we're having a few problems and I'm thinking to myself get in the shower we're so close just get in the shower I'll be done by the time you're out of the shower like one minute later I have an email back that says what problems and it spirals out of control it turns out we've made some elementary mistakes for the technical folks here we ended up an engineer on my team put a database call in line with a button display which works great in the lab and fails immediately under load we didn't catch it there were some other problems as well but Bezos is mad he's mad first why isn't it working second this is embarrassing third what do you mean there's a database in use and in this role blah he starts blowing up at me what do you do the CEO of the company is mad at you and he's copying your SVP your VP and everybody else who's vaguely relevant well here's what I did these six steps this is how you get out of trouble number one own it Jeff you're right it's a problem we're working on it I will get this fixed number two communicate clearly and frequently here's what we're doing this hour I will check back in with you at 7 a.m. give me 45 minutes till 7 I will update you then and then at 7 update him here's where we are here's what we've done here's what we learned here's how we're getting help here's what we're gonna do in the next hour I bought myself time one hour at a time and then as things got slightly better later two hours at a time four hours at a time a day at a time but I earned back trust because his trust was broken but I could get enough trust to say I'm on this I have a good plan for the next 45 minutes do you believe that communicate clearly and frequently next thing is I am my team worked kind of around the clock to get it fixed fast we also not listed here accepted help we had all with not all but we had many of Amazon's principal engineers come in and for those of you know of course AWS the way they fixed my database problems we said you have a terrible database design we don't have time to rewrite it today what we're gonna do is we're gonna put a big enough database behind it that your terrible design will operate okay that's definitely a hack I appreciated it um fourth thing I was lucky I had a good boss I tell this story more for fun my boss was named Paul my SVP was Jeff Wilkie CEO of Amazon retail Jeff Wilkie is mad because Jeff Bezos is mad and Jeff Wilkie feels a I've made mistakes and B it's his job to represent that mad in person so he comes into my office or our office space and is looking for me my boss Paul good guy steps in front of him says if you have any problem my team they're working I am the VP you take it up with me and Jeff this is great it's classic he says Paul that is excellent leadership you are a good leader I want to talk to Ethan please step aside so my boss tried to take one for the team it didn't work and that's where I say I did pay the price what do I mean by that I had broken trust by making some elementary mistakes it set me back in my process so I had to accept that I was going to have to spend some time re-earning that trust and they did but it delayed my promotion two years you might think wow two years that's brutal well the standards to get the vice president and Amazon were very high and I had publicly failed the CEO I figured the fact I didn't lose my job as I will tell you momentarily was a fair trade so the last thing that happened is I was part of a city we fixed the problem everything was working Jeff was still mad it happened that I had a meeting coming up with him during the next week and I was thinking to myself you know I'm not critical in this meeting he's pissed at me maybe I should skip it once I had that thought I thought you know if I can't face the CEO I better spend that hour packing my desk so I decided to go to the meeting early I knew where Jeff would sit he always sat in the same chair so I went and sat next to his chair I figured if I'm gonna if I'm gonna show up show up big so Jeff comes in he sits down I'm not critical to this meeting he runs the meeting I kind of feel like he's ignoring me I wonder how it's gonna go but there's a lesson here it's a lot easier to flame people in email which you know than to be mean to them in person so I sit through this meeting for an hour right next to him and at the end of the meeting he turns to me and he says hey how are you doing I bet it's been a long week and at that point I knew there was a human connection I knew that he was not he would he would never forget that I had made mistakes and that my judgment might be suspect but he was over being mad and he was willing to talk to me as a person and that gave me the opening to say yeah it has been a long week but here's where we are here's what we've learned here's what we're doing blah blah blah and so I was able to maintain relationship even though I had damaged trust now last part of this story so you have a deep illustration I'm high-fiving myself all the way out of the building patting myself on the back so much I'm breaking my arm I'm so smart I went and stood up to the CEO I made nice I'm good at this blowing on my fingernails I'm gonna do it with Jeff Wilkie I'm gonna go to my SVP who was mad before I'm gonna go run the same playbook so I make a one-on-one with Jeff Wilkie I go see him I say hey I just want to follow up on this problem I had I want to talk to you about what went on and he says good I want to talk to you too he says Ethan when you launched this product did you know that there were risks in it did you know you were gambling and I said yes we had agreed to launch on this date and I thought the date was more important and I could manage the risks and he said uh-huh well it's good you knew you were taking a risk because if you were ignorant to the risk we'd meet me we would need to be discussing your departure but given that you knew there were risks we can simply talk about the fact that you made a bad choice and you can't ever do that again so here coming off my victory lap with Jeff I was thinking I was gonna have another one with Jeff Wilkie and instead I learned that he was trying to decide in that meeting whether or not I should stay all right you all want to be executives that's why you're in this class there aren't any pips there's no pivot plans or executive feedback once you're a vice president as I say it if someone bothers to tell you that you're doing a poor job before you get fired you're actually being treated very well generally they just come by your office and say you know this isn't working out we have a package for you now technically under the law they might have to write up a plan if you refuse the package but that never happens and I was looking for focus these things get renamed all the time performance improvement plan pivot focus remember this isn't Amazon only they go at every different place but yeah it's a harsh dog eat dog world why why is it so harsh remember trust I don't have time to audit your thousand person team I need it to just work if I can't trust you to do that I can try and fix you or I can try and put someone in place that I trust that's an easy call you get moved aside so last section before another break the last thing you're judged on your team is judged on is how many results you crank out and how good those results are this is the only place where I have the audacity to quote myself because I coined this phrase and it resonates with people results are the currency of credibility what do I mean I mean the more results you have the more people will listen to you the more influential you will be I probably would not have been able to get that TiVo project greenlit except I had been at the company long enough that I had built and shipped the first product and I had earned some credibility that I could do what I said so results give you the credibility to do more now if you prefer a different quote be quick but don't hurry about results what that means is yes you need to be moving as fast as you can but don't be frantic that leads to mistakes another way this is often said is you may have heard the phrase slow is smooth and smooth is fast that may come up in sections of the class where we'll go deeper into where it comes from but the idea is you need to go slowly enough to have a smooth process because that leads to the most overall speed all right so I just covered this in a way executives are held accountable results that's all that that's all they're counted on doesn't matter you're nice guy great nice girl your your team loves you we can go on and on here right you've built a great organization if the money isn't coming in and the products aren't shipping you will be replaced no matter how well you're dotting all the I's and crossing all the T's because in the end if you want one of these jobs it's about your delivery of things that make money for the company that make customers happy that hold competitors at bay that's the bottom line and there isn't a defense of but I did what I was told or but we worked really hard nobody cares and in fact no kidding I just had a director I coach told by his VP nobody cares literally those words nobody cares results performance plans are rare you're mostly just asked to leave so you have to deliver the results now how do you do that I'm not here to teach you how to deliver results it's everything else in this class allows you to deliver the results but if you want to know how your judge what the standards are those are the standards so it's 1110 take five minutes go figure out how you're gonna get the feedback you need and commit to making changes as appropriate none of us is a perfect performer I'm still learning I'm still taking classes myself hopefully you'll be a lifelong learner figure out how you're gonna make the changes stay stock I will see you at 1115 Pacific whatever that is where you are take five minutes hit the restroom we'll finish up and go into Q&A the last section of content so we're gonna cover the last section of content for today we're going to cover the first three bullets I believe under your company should take about half an hour then we'll get into Q&A and then you will have the option to stay for Jason's networking section so if you haven't entered your questions or voted on them there's 55 questions your question is probably already there it's a question of voting on which ones I'll have time to handle and I will take this one the first two questions are the same I will take the self-promotion question first when we get there but let's jump in what do you do at the company level how do you show you're a director or higher level leader an executive at a corporate level so you're doing great work yourself and your team is killing it that was sections one and two section three what do you how do you need to show up at the corporate level to get to the next level three things number one you have to show that you can participate and add to the strategy understand the strategy help develop the strategy second you can't just focus on your own team you have to be making the whole company better what are you doing that contributes more broadly finally influence you've got to be able to sway other leaders like you who by the way are trying to influence you to their plans instead you the higher you go by definition the more influential and talented your peers so if you're going to play at their level you have to build these skills how do you do that those are our three sections we'll then start off tomorrow with building executive presence and engaging executive sponsors how do you get executive sponsors so those are your teasers for tomorrow so another jeff said it's a great little quote though be strategically patient and tactically impatient what does that mean what that specifically means is that important results take a long time so may take five years from one end of becoming a senior manager to becoming a director it took me six years to go from director to vp um if that's my goal i have to be patient because no matter how well i do i'm not going to do it in 12 months i have to have some patience but tactically impatient means am i making progress every day whatever my goals are am i making progress towards those goals every day and am i being impatient to get as much as i can done every day while still realizing that this valuable result may take years that's what this means so let's go a little bit strategy is one of those words strategy is one of those words it's very fuzzy i've tried in this diagram which remember you'll get the slides to give you a very clear breakdown now this has three levels i borrowed this from my friend the two-star general who said look the army thinks in terms of tactics operations and strategy so tactics are the low level day-to-day actions necessary to move the effort forward all of you already know how to do this you know how to manage your team whatever your team does and assign them work and chip away at the little things the code that needs to be written the research that needs to be done the marketing documents the legal documents the financial reports you know how to manage the activities great you've got your tactics down operations is where you're at now you're a little bit of a higher level leader you're combining all those tactical efforts to hit some goal that's the intermediate significant objective strategy is how do we put all the things going on in the company together to attain some instinct so like we'll take aws or google cloud or azure cloud computing we'll take those and we'll say their goal is to make it so that anything you want to build any technical product you want to build can be built 100% in the cloud using nobody else's software or services and no hardware of your own that's their goal that you can build anything technical you dream of without worrying about where it lives or how to operate it you just use this big virtual thing that's their instinct as an example now there are many other end states that other companies are striving towards that's just one example but that's the strategic level so you've got to start thinking at that level and specifically thinking where does i have this piece i'm assigned where does it fit in and how do i make it contribute best to that big hole now people say well our strategy is unclear no one's told me the strategy okay how can you find out first read what the company is saying listen to what the ceo is saying understand spend some time remember i talked about spending time to think spend some time really thinking about where is this company going and where do i fit into it the vision part is why you may have heard of simon cynic and his book start with why which isn't one of the books i show pictures of but what's the why why is your company doing this why do they believe this is a valuable outcome so whatever your company is striving for you know i believe google's mission for example is organize earth's information or something like information or something like that why what do they believe well they obviously believe that there's now a ton of information in the world and that it to make sense of it all is very hard okay or we could look at like what is open ai what are they trying to achieve the other thing to understand is strategy can be both planned and emergent planned means we sit back and we think of something we go work on it emergent means we notice something happening in the world and we respond to it and i'm going to talk about merch by amazon as an example of that in just a second it's a project i built in amazon but it's an example of seeing what's happening and responding so strategy can be evolved in either way finally you want something that is sustainable and defensible what does that mean it means other people can't quickly copy it that there's something about it that makes it unique to your company so that frankly they can make money on it by being exclusive because if anybody can do it then everybody will do it and so an example of everybody doing it is phone cases right the iphone is defensible only apple can build it the case that goes on the iphone anybody can build so they're five dollars and come in container ship loads out of china that's why you you'd rather sell iphones you can make money doing both but you'd rather sell iphones than than iphone covers so i have to be careful i burn my voice out and i have to talk to you for two days merch by amazon um this is a project i was running the amazon app store merch by amazon is a t-shirt printing business among other things what does printing t-shirts have to do with the app store we had a theory our theory was what you would call planned strategy we said hey a lot of game makers have cool characters in their games they have iconic uh you know cartoon characters or whatever they'd like to sell t-shirts about their game uh let's build a service where the app makers what's something unique amazon can do to make ourselves special to game makers um let's handle their merchandising so we're going to build a t-shirt printing business to handle merchandising for game makers we start this up with a few people and indeed a few game makers join us and they're interested but what we didn't anticipate this is where planned strategy turns into emergent strategy all these artists wanted into our program because they realized they could make a lot of money using our system to print funny slogans on t-shirts and to print trending topics about politics or current events or whatever so we realized ah apps are not the right reason but we're on to something that's the key oh we're on to something people started coming to us and buyers showed up and they wanted to buy the t-shirts because they were interested in the topics and so the t-shirt designers were making money and we were making money selling the t-shirts and the customers were happy now what made this business sustainable and defensible well all of you know amazon prime prime already existed as an asset that allowed things to be shipped two days and now one day free of charge because we were printing the t-shirts at amazon we could send them into the prime system so there were lots of t-shirt printing companies there still are what makes merch by amazon unique is you can order a t-shirt and get it tomorrow and so if you need a t-shirt you can have it tomorrow morning by and without paying so that made our business defensible it made it better than the existing alternatives the result is this is now over a one billion dollar business at amazon with like the last time i knew a 16 or 17 margin probably that's probably both of those numbers have gone up but that means it's generating for amazon like 170 million dollars of profit a year printing t-shirts we print a lot of t-shirts so that's an example of emergent strategy a specific one you can relate to the key action here is think through each of you has a job you're all doing your job you have goals you're working hard good but can you explain succinctly how your job and your delivery is going to make the company better and make it more money this year because if you can't point to that and you can't optimize it you have work to do because in the end every everything by the way hr people make the company money lawyers make the company money it's different ways okay it's easier to see if you're a product manager a salesperson or an engineer it's i build this i sell it etc lawyers keep the company from getting sued or they negotiate better terms hr people keep the company from getting sued and they open buildings and they uh make sure the staff is retained and comes in etc they all have a role everyone has a role how are you maximizing what you're delivering to the company and do you understand your role that's the point here so that's strategy now let's talk about enhancing the whole division or company the quote here i couldn't figure out it's not sure history knows who's first said this but a rising tide lifts all boats you want to be that rising tide you want to be the person who's not only making your group better you're making everybody better how do you do that well you can't do it on all fronts but there are ways to do it so why does this matter it makes you valuable to your teammates it helps you build a network it helps you be liked so first on the negative side you need to think beyond your team you may need to sacrifice your team's best goals or performance to meet an overall company goal sometimes a team takes a hit on behalf of others example i told you all and you know my history i ran amazon's app store amazon's app store was started as its own independent business with the idea that it would compete with google on android phones to be the dominant app store instead of google play however then amazon started making tablets the candle line of tablets our job became make the best app store for kendall tablets so my team's job became support another product sometimes that's what an executive needs to do and that's where you have to have the whole company perspective because if my perspective was no no no i'm i'm focused on phones not tablets jeff would have fired me because he was focused on tablets so the story became i focused on tablets and my team was well funded so that we could have the best non-ipad tablet in the world at the lowest prices that was the goal whether or not you think we did separate issue i think the kindle tablets are pretty good but of course pride of ownership the point here is sometimes your job is to support others know your role particularly by the way this is true if you're in a support function if you work in finance and your company isn't a fintech company if you work in legal and you're not a law firm then you're in a support function you get your value by making others succeed and that is how you move up the best lawyer is the one who helps his vps and svps thrive so that when they need a new general counsel they're like obviously ethan he's the best lawyer in the company that's how that works a couple examples let me just give you a couple examples of making a broad contribution and making the point that those contributions don't have to be directly from your work two examples first i built a course while i was in amazon going all the way back to 2009 called hiring hacks amazon is not hiring a lot right now but it used to do tons of hiring and people were always complaining they couldn't find talent they couldn't hire meanwhile i was hiring everyone i needed to so i taught courses on how to do that and i called them hiring hacks how to hire well in any environment super popular the course is still available inside amazon and it's been seen by like 11 000 people now i'm going to build a non amazon version of it out for the public that has nothing to do with amazon because the material is about how to hire it's not about amazon it's about how to hire but the key is i got known throughout the company as the hiring guy the guy who can help you figure out how to hire i got known by recruiters i got known by hiring managers i got invited by executives to address their whole team because their team wasn't hiring successfully it built my reputation across the company by teaching that's one example now there was another guy at amazon going all the way back to when i joined he liked to ski so he went to the local seattle ski areas and he said hey sell me your bulk tickets and i will resell them at cost no markup two people at amazon and more people will come to your ski slope to ski you'll sell more tickets because i will carry them into seattle this is back when tickets were paper i will carry them into seattle and distribute them for you and you'll discount them and everybody will win so for years he ran a service where you could give him money send him money in her office in the mail system and he would send you back ski tickets now you might think what good is that well think about how many people he met and remember the whole example i gave about people you like and how you think of them versus people you don't whenever he needed anything done in the company or needed help he had all these people that liked him because he was their ski ticket hookup so their initial if he came and said can your team do this for me can your team do that for me a he already had a relationship he knew to ask and b they already liked him that is an enormous leg up from doing something that has nothing to do with your daily work so i just want to show you yes you can also teach brown bags you can write a transferable service that gets used by other people whatever it is your company does you can produce direct value for the company but you want to be doing something that helps and builds your reputation across different groups because as we talk very early eq and relationships is what gets you to the next level so your action to go figure out is how can you contribute to others right how can you um how can you raise the boat of other people in your company uh there's one guy follows me i don't think he's in this class you might have taken it last time he's he started a newsletter based on my content that he repurposes and some other stuff and he's built 20 000 followers inside his company just by writing useful information and sharing it huge leg up now he knows 20 000 people who think well of him so third point you need to be an influential communicator and leader now we're going to hold off on talking about the two how to's until tomorrow so that we get a good section of q and a but let's talk about the general pieces of influence first influence i borrowed the dictionary definition because what is it it's the power to cause changes without directly forcing them to happen as you become an executive you may think oh it's great once you're the vp you just give orders and everything happens but we know this isn't true all of you lead people how often have you talked to your team and then find that they go back to their desks or get off the zoom or whatever type call you use and go do whatever the hell it is they thought they should do anyway they either don't understand you or they don't prioritize it you have to get people to buy in because you can't stand over them every minute to order them all right so how do you do this what's it mean to be an influential communicator and leader first i want to give you a metric you can measure how influential are you it's here in blue if you're being trusted and respected enough that people are seeking you out when it's not your area of business and they're saying hey ethan can you join this meeting because we really like your input or your insight you know you've achieved influence when people are coming and consulting you as opposed to you knocking on their door and saying hey i need something hey can i be involved in hey i need to contribute to this when people start coming to you now you're influential how do you build this trust rapidly trust is consistency over time i already said that it's also say what you'll do then do it and we thought we're going to answer this question in q a about introverts needing to speak up you may be doing what you need to do but if you haven't called your shot and communicated that you're going to do this thing then when you do it it may not be attributed to you or it may not impress anyone i'm going to go way back into history that's okay the baseball player babe ruth was renowned for announcing when he was going to hit a home run now i actually don't know how good he was at always delivering but he lives on in history as the guy who could call his shots and say i'm going to hit a home run and then go and do it that's what made him an impressive legend to the point that there's still a candy bar named after so if you want to earn trust it's not only do what you need to do it's make sure people know you're going to do it doesn't have to be a brag this has to be clear and then you have done it you also want to try and build trust with lots of people allies mentors sponsors new bosses building and rebuilding trust and realizing who have you built trust worth with who is new to you there's been a reorg somebody came or somebody left whatever it is you want a new mentor those people don't know you so how are you going to build trust with them because we fall into this trap of thinking well i'm a good person i'm an honest person i deliver what i say everyone should know that everyone should know that is not a strategy how are you going to show it and reshow it and reshow it that's a strategy and you can say well that's unfair that's a lot of work yes it's all of those things being an executive is unfair and a lot of work if you wanted the i promised to tell you how to get to executive i did not promise nor do i promise to tell you how to make it easy only that you'll know how and you can do it so you want to influence people here's a quick deeper view of influence when people think of influence they think of what i'm doing right now they think of is is the person a persuasive speaker can they get up in front of an audience like in the picture and enthrall them that is not that is one small piece of influence and for all the people who are worried about being introverts the good news for you is there's lots of other pieces of influence so if you're not a gifted quick on your feet speaker you can do all the other things well so number one preparation here i am i'm two and a half hours into speaking to you for three and a half hours some people say wow that's that's good public speaking to be able to just talk for three and a half hours and say reasonable things pretty impressive but i prepared okay i built this class and it's been delivered this is my fourth time delivering the complete class but beyond that i went through all the slides last night and then i got up again this morning and went through them all again so that i'm on point preparation second though if you're trying to persuade someone not in a speaking sense just internal to your business listen and ask questions remember i said questions are more powerful than statements by listening and asking someone what they think you can find out what they need to be persuaded on i don't have time to go through the whole example but i coach a woman and she got in trouble because she was trying very hard to make a technical point with someone whose key metric was financial and the problem was the solution she was pitching to him which was a good technical solution also cost more money so she was banging away on it's technically right it's technically right it's technically right didn't matter to him because it costs more she wasn't addressing his point she never asked how do you evaluate this change until it was too late she had already lost and then she figured it out next point facts a lot of us come from scientific backgrounds and we want to believe oh if i just have the facts i'll win well i don't want to get into any political arguments but let's take vaccination i can find a bunch of people who give you the facts on how vaccination is really effective and i'll give you a bunch of people who give you the facts on how vaccination is poisonous and hurts children do not have the illusion that you will win an argument only on facts reputation remember i said that results are the currency of credibility what reputation have you built in the company what is your past track record that will be a huge factor in how influential you are this is where introverts can win by the way if you've done great work you may be sought after even if you're not a great speaker or you're not great at being quick on your feet in arguments but if you've done a lot of good things you have a great reputation it's one element conduct conduct is kind of like reputation but different conduct means don't do anything that makes it easy to discredit you don't yell don't cuss don't pound the table don't do things that make it easy for me as your opposition to say well that's just even now you can see what sort of person he is you don't ever want to leave yourself open to a conduct criticism track record track record is like reputation but again it's how much have you delivered reputation can come from things like your education do you have a doctorate in the relevant subject have you published on it track record is how much have you done right in your last time you tried to influence the last time you tried to convince me of something whether i agreed with you or not were you ultimately proven right okay relationships this one now should be really obvious to you because we already talked about if i like you i'm much more likely to do what you want and if i don't like you i'm much more likely to find reasons not to so doesn't mean you have to kiss up to everyone but it does mean don't make enemies don't antagonize someone so much they're like you know i'd help ethan over my dead body gonna be really hard to influence that person like incredibly hard and then yes how you speak and how you write also counts but it is not everything so tomorrow we will go into executive presence and the how-to's we're gonna go into q a we'll do this really quick you've had a break recently so i'm just gonna give three minutes here because i want to start on q a we'll run q a till about 12 30 so about 45 minutes we'll take questions in the order they were voted i promised to do self-promotion even though one other question has more votes but jason pause it and we'll be right back so i'm gonna stop the share we'll do some q a i want to look at all you beautiful people thank you all for being here i hope you've gotten a lot out of this so there's this question of how to build a network with leaders from other departments i will get to that second because i promised even though it now has a lot of people i'm not gonna be able to do that i promised even though it now has the most votes to cover introverts which got its votes split over two things so here are your sometimes i like to give you just the dirty tricks they're not that dirty but the unexpected tricks how can you self promote and get away with it whether you're a high level ic or an individual or a team leader if you're uncomfortable sending something that says i did x praise me which i get instead thing number one is share status create a status report uh that just talks about facts this is an update and add people to it including by the way this question of higher level people add them to it have a quick summary at the top that says here are the highlights and then send your status report out whatever every monday every sunday every friday doesn't matter some people will read it some people won't but the great thing about mass media is you can get in front of people and if someone wants off your status report let them go like say okay sorry to spam you remove it people aren't going to get mad that you shared a status report the great thing about doing this is it's automated it's innocuous and it's relentless over time and if you just keep stating the facts and your peers aren't doing it or aren't sharing it as widely you will get more reputation okay that's a tactic it's a good tactic now let's take it to the next level if you're uncomfortable talking about yourself there's a psychological trick that works amazingly well which is talk about your team members let's say one of you has 50 team members you have five leaders send messages where you copy the people that you want them candidly i'm being machiavellian here okay i'm being i'm being manipulative not that this is evil i'm just going to spell it out in manipulative terms figure out everyone that you want to think great of you put them on an email every week but pick a different team member or part of your team to praise and say i want to share the news that mary's team delivered this this week i want to share the news that you know alfred got an award in this space i want to share the news and congratulate samantha for what she achieved at such and such a conference now why does this work you might think first nobody's going to get mad at you for saying good things about your team second they aren't going to be so crass as to say ah samantha is actually kind of a nasty person we should all hate on her the worst they'll do is ignore it or delete it nobody's going to publicly respond and slag on someone that you're praising third though this is the key your skip level isn't going to remember all these random people they're going to remember that they keep hearing from you about good things that every week it seems like something great's coming out of ethan's team i can't even remember it all but man just every week there's something good happening there that's how you gain reputation is in the end the manager doesn't end up thinking oh samantha and alfred and mary are great they think ethan has a great team and that's what you're after so the insidious way to take credit for things is praise others praise others in your team even by the way praise others in others teams you get like if you need if you feel like oh that's too obvious fine occasionally send praise emails for other teams it's still your name in their inbox it's still your name sending the interesting tidbit this you might i tend to stay away often from things that are only optics but this is a case where you can do good because by the way when you call samantha and mary and alfred out they usually appreciate it they feel good they feel recognized so you're not only um you're not only raising the profile of your team and therefore of yourself you're also raising the profile of your team members in a way they appreciate and if you're doing your job right you're helping them get ready for promotion it's good for them too it allows you to fulfill so many missions at once now i will take this to an extreme uh my first boss at amazon was a fine gentleman but he wasn't very quick to praise and i noticed my team wasn't getting much praise and so i took to sending him messages we would launch something and then i would send him a note that would say here's what we did today just to him here's what we did today this is where you come in and say great job and he of course he could have told me screw off i you're not going to tell me when to praise your team but he knew i was going to fight him on it and he also knew i was right and so even though it wasn't his norm an hour later there'd be a message that would come out that says hey i just wanted this was a great thing you did good work thank you for doing that now should i have to do that should i have to stick my hand up the sock puppet and make my boss's mouth talk no but as people were just laughing in chat sometimes the executive life isn't fair so i was sock puck and puppeting my boss and telling him like yep now you say this now you say that but with the prompts he would now you might not be able to have that relationship with every boss i'm giving you the mindset so jason you can pop those out of the queue the introvert ones and we will take frederick's question with the most votes here how do you build a network with leaders from other departments you're not working with and do something for them build a relationship so they remember you etc etc etc everybody can read the question because it's in the q a tool so i won't read it all so we have a section tomorrow on executive sponsors so you will get a lot more depth on how to earn executive sponsorship tomorrow but the essence here is you've got to find a way to bring value executives are too busy to just have you wanting to spend time with them and in fact we dread it can i get 15 minutes with you what's the agenda oh i just want to talk no no you can't get 15 minutes i just wrote some posts jason's like the track down my posts and link them i just wrote this whole thing about how the executives at uh jeff bezos stopped doing all one-on-ones he just quit because they felt they were low values of his time let me instead talk you through an example this person is here i won't call them out but i'll give you an example there's someone in this class who wanted some of my time specifically i've closed my coaching program i no longer have time to do any coaching that person wanted me to coach them they figured out that there was something they could do for me that they found something i was doing i'm being very non-specific but they found part of my public presence that was low quality and broken and they came to me and said hey i noticed this part of your public work it's low quality and broken ah would you be willing i will fix this for you i will do the work to fix this uh and make this part of your public presence better if you'll take me on as a coaching client that was a great offer i needed that work done this person had the skills to do it they're in the process of doing it i'm invested in them i'm so invested in them i'm praising them publicly though anonymously here so you want to figure out how to do the same thing now you might think but there's 10 executives i can't like be doing special projects for all of them that's true you have to figure out how to make your interactions valuable it doesn't have to be big you have to figure out what's important to them or what's an opportunity where they need something or i have something they need or i can have a positive interaction by the way remember it not have to be work maybe they're into fishing you may not even be into fishing but you may have a cousin who fishes and you may hear about a great salmon river or trout river great you can send them a note that says hey i remember when we talked you were going fly fishing my cousin just came back from a killer trip to the copper river in alaska real place um i like i just i want to send you a couple of pictures because i thought you'd be interested that's all it takes just that little connection it doesn't have to be a heavy lift the last thing i will say is if you build your broad public presence you don't need every executive to love you you need some specifically when it comes promotion time you're talking about how do you get a seat on their team but when it comes promotion time if there's a promotion in a room there's a huge difference and i'll go through an example of this tomorrow of having your manager advocate for you and having someone not in your management team step in and say you know i know ethan too and he's awesome that's considered an independent opinion if someone else speaks up from another group it's trusted way more because of course they know that the manager the manager wants to retain you the manager wants to reward you wants to keep you happy so maybe the manager is not being objective but somebody in another group they're very objective at least in theory you've just set it up so they're on your side so um the bottom line is find a point of connection it can be sports it can be you went to school in the same place it can be your kids it doesn't matter but people if you want a connection with someone find a commonality that they enjoy and that's how you get them to remember you can also deliver special work or value to them you have to be opportunistic a good discipline i recommend to all of you is take five minutes only five minutes every sunday night think back about your last week and think what did my team do this last week and who can i tell about it because if you just tell a few people a few things that help their team or that they're interested in every sunday night in short messages and praise a couple of your team members in public this is very quick and you can always find somebody to praise and somebody that you can inform will it be the same people all the time no and that's great you'll rotate around all right next question what do we got here all right critique how do we turn the tide on earned trust and personality with skip and senior svp where you have a few moments each year so it's tough to influence with limited time the biggest way to influence there is you have to influence the people who have more time with them so you have to have the support remember i said the manager is the most important person in your career progression you have to have your manager on your side which is that class i have the growth and promotion recipe i have another class called managing up all of them go with how do you get your manager on your side we cover some of that in this course but we can't go as deep those classes is a recorded non-demand you can go watch them but basically you have to build a layer of advocates who are talking to the svp about you when you're not there now if you're doing this really well you go get yourself a mentor who knows that vp or svp and talks to them on your behalf and we're going to talk tomorrow about the difference between mentors and sponsors briefly a mentor is someone who agrees to give you information you want to learn more about whatever uh can be technical can be non-technical you want to learn more about public speaking they agree to give you advice on public speaking a sponsor is someone who agrees to help you with your career okay that you um that you the specific difference is mentors tell you things sponsors put you forward for opportunities now how do you get sponsors that's tomorrow but that's what you're looking for is you get a sponsor to go talk to the vp and say you should spend a little more time with ethan he's a rising star that's what you want is that conversation okay frederick good job getting a second question into the top set you must write good questions see interesting point here i don't know frederick from a hole in the wall never met him at least i don't think so but if you have a talent lean into it apparently he's a good writer and he's quick on the trigger so he's like these you don't have to stand out for everything in your life you have to stand out for a few things that make you memorable so how do you build a reputation at skip level against peers that may be super pushy and trying to own your topics pushing for that same promotion and not waiting so i like to stay away from competitive as much as i can and definitely from pushy people the first thing you have to be honest about is this so-called pushy person is this so-called pushy person are they only pushy or are they also good because the way this reads it's i'm doing all the good work and they're just good at talking that's a different situation than if they're both good at talking and really doing something valuable so just be honest about your own evaluation an example of that by the way is when i got to vp at amazon i considered going for svp there were 300 other vice presidents i looked around my competition and i said you know i'm better than a lot of these vps i am but i'm not better than most of them meaning like there's 50 to 100 at least out of this 300 who outperform me there's only going to be a few seats at the next level can i get into the top three out of 300 can i do that am i willing to do it am i that good my decision was between ability and willingness i was not going to make it so i changed my plan and decided what am i going to do now that i've hit my level here i'm not going to earn my way through this pack of 300 very good people you got to be honest in your evaluation now let's assume you are really good and this person is just pushy the next thing to do here is analyze why is that working with your boss or why is that working why in other words presumably your executive is not stupid they can tell the difference between good performance and good talking right there's a saying i love about someone being all hat no cattle it referred to people who dress like a texan and claim to be texas ranchers but live in suburbia and don't actually have a ranch all hat no cattle well um presumably your svp is smart so the next question to ask is what value is that person actually delivering now there's this last part where they may be trying to own your topics this is where you may have to step up and speak over them doesn't mean getting a fight but it does mean if someone's truly i just had someone yesterday someone i coach uh one of my existing clients she's having a problem of someone talking over her literally a question will be addressed to her in a meeting and appears she doesn't get along with will start to answer on her behalf at that point there are only two choices choice number one is to go ahead and interrupt yourself and say i'm sorry i believe that question was addressed to me would you mind if i answered it now you won't be loved for that by the peer but you may have no choice the other choice and this is particularly relevant to women is to get an ally in the room might be your boss might be your skip level that you make them aware and say notice this pattern for me would you might be someone else who's in the room whether male or female who can interrupt and say i'm sorry i think that question was addressed to alice why don't we let alice answer and then you can add what you have to say you need someone who will step in and interrupt and that keeps why is that relevant if you defend yourself you may be seen as thorny if someone else steps in says i think that question was addressed to ethan then the other person has to shut up but they can't be mad at you because you didn't do it now that assumes you can find that ally so that's a complete answer to this question at this point which is either interrupt them yourselves or find an ally to do it next up how does your promotion work when your manager is n plus one level well that itself become a blocker uh i'm not super sure i know what this means pratap if you're here come off mute real quick and explain a little more yeah i'm looking at a manager like your manager being director and you're a senior manager so given the company restrictions around who can be your direct report could that become a blocker for you to become a director reporting to a director um promotion does happen would you move in parallel to a different team yeah yeah got it okay thank you so um i just did an interview with a woman named christy colter who wrote a book on amazon called exit interview and this happened to her she got moved under an equal level manager her boss actually thought that it wouldn't hurt her promotion and she had to point out to him like i can't be promoted because i'm not allowed to have a higher level than my manager um it depending on how your company policies work two things are true first if you're reporting to someone of equal level they're both i guess it's the relative level if you're reporting to someone of equal level you're not going to get promoted until they get promoted it's just not going to happen possible exception is with senior individual contributors some companies will allow someone to manage an individual contributor of a higher level but broadly speaking if you're reporting to an equal level person you have two choices which is help them get promoted really quickly can you get are they near promotion can you can you lean into them and make a deal with them says i'll get you up you you get me up right i'll boost you and then you reach down and pull me i've done that with many people i've made that deal um and it's worked out for me but uh if you can't make that deal you got to get out from under them right those are the choices it is a blocker so there's no need to have a nuanced answer here it's a blocker you're going to have to get them promoted or move next uh any tips to be seen as strategic by your leaders uh yes given that you already consider yourself strategic thank you rodrigo um you have to share your ideas in other words um first ask them if they will start with questions if you can get your leaders to respond ask them about the strategy engage them in why are we doing what we're doing what do you think how do you think about this and then add your thoughts and if your thoughts are good they will think of you as strategic if your thoughts are off base they'll think of you as annoying which is true but start a conversation with them you can't just sit silently and um you have to figure out how is this strategy in your company evaluated what are the leaders open to hearing and how do i fill that airspace how do i now look most good leaders want better ideas they also want help executing them and i'll talk about that in a second but if you have a better idea than i do i want it because i want to succeed i don't care about ownership of the idea i care about results that's a good leader bad leaders may be threatened that's a separate topic if you have that bad leader you may need to leave but let's assume you have a good leader now the question is how are such ideas surface different companies have different processes they have different forums sometimes the way to do it is invite the leader out for a beer or catch them in a hallway and chat with them sometimes it's write a paper sometimes it's write a proposal sometimes it's build a prototype and show them a demo there are different every culture has different ways to do this you have to figure out what is the culturally appropriate way different you know different companies have different ways uh that said i think this book is in the slides tomorrow go read the book rejection proof it's all about how to ask for things and get them it was a i'll cover it again tomorrow i think but it was a book written by a guy who was afraid of getting rejected and he undertook a process to become comfortable with rejection and figured out along the way that he mostly got what he asked for the irony of the book is he set out to face a lot of rejection so he tried asking people for absurd things so they'd say no so he could get used to it and toughen up his skin and he found actually that he learned how to ask them in such a way that they usually said yes and he stopped and get he did face rejection and he learned how to do that but he also figured out how to avoid it and that was a huge learning next question these are good by the way i appreciate the high quality questions so far this group is getting two gold stars gold star number one good questions gold star number two actually voting so that there's a clear ranking some people can't understand that like every the end of the thing there's everything has three votes all right uh shiva um techniques to ensure that your work as an ic is being noticed way up high getting vps time large organization extremely challenging even though i lead a big rock initiative that brings profit to my org how do i get visibility of my vp this is the whole i think i kind of covered this uh in the introvert piece send the status report send it in slack invite them to a demo i'll tell a quick story um i had at amazon early in my career when i was still a senior manager or maybe a new director there was a young engineer on my team who had an idea and he wanted to create a place for people to upload and share upload and store all the mp3s they were collecting uh first thing he did was get himself invited by advocating for himself get himself invited to amazon's annual engineering conference which was called up the river but he learned that jeff bezos usually attended that and that there was like a technical poster session where in the big audience hall anyone who wanted to could set up a poster talking about their different ideas or what their group was doing or thoughts they had or proposals so he decided he was going to make himself a poster and then he emailed jeff bezos like six levels above him seven levels above him and he said jeff i understand you're going to be at up the river i have this idea would you be willing to come by my poster why did this work trivial ask you're going to be at the conference anyway there's a big hall of posters would you come look at my poster didn't ask him to agree with anything didn't ask him for a bunch of time just would you look at my poster once he got jeff at the poster of course he could show jeff his idea and talk to him about it now what happened out of this is super funny uh first jeff liked the idea or thought it had merit so he emailed my boss so like multiple levels above emailed my boss and said hey i met your engineer uh so and so uh at up the river at the conference he has a good idea you should consider it and get back to me with your thoughts now i can tell you my boss's first thought was oh this is a terrible idea i don't want to do this i don't think it's good but he was on a hook to bezos right long story short is once they worked through the idea and dug into it jeff still liked it it became a project and that engineer left my team to go help found the new team so a little bit like rejection proof you have to find some way to communicate it the trick is find different ways can you tweet it at them can you blog it internally can you share it as a newsletter can you mail it as a status can you have your boss share it with them who can can you invite them to a demo i guess my challenge for you and for anyone who wants an answer to this is i challenge you to spend 30 minutes this afternoon start a timer on your desk and if you can't write down 30 different ways to put an idea in front of an executive or get them to pay attention to you you're not trying hard enough 30 different methods so yes chat tweet text email like those are the easy ones then it gets more complicated but you find 30 different ways and then you just anytime you need to get in front of one of these people you pick one of the things off your list of 30 because there are lots of ways to get things in front of people but you have to be clever that's why i tell the story though of this engineer he was the lowest level entry level technical employee amazon has for those from amazon or google he was an l4 um as an l4 engineer he got to talk to jeff then got a project started and funded by jeff right and i've seen this over and over again it's easy to do all right next question jade dave um how do you identify opportunities to let your people safely fail without jeopardizing their careers or your own um great question this is about guardrails uh it's it's about letting them struggle without letting them crater because in fact amazon i used to teach a course internal to amazon about growing top talent and it is in fact possible to set back top talent by overstretching them and they crater publicly so you you want to um give them enough rope but not quite enough to hang themselves only enough to choke a little and you've got to watch for like when are they when is it not working out and go rescue them so um the opportunity has to again i talked about this idea of the challenge skills sweet spot they're growing along an upward curve which is why my hands are at an angle if they're below a certain level they're not challenged but if they're above a certain level they're thrashing and drowning the trick of being a good leader in a good manager is keeping them in somewhere in that sweet spot uh that takes work on your part it also takes work on their part where you have to talk to them and say look if you start to struggle do not be afraid that you're disappointing me i need you to talk to me if you get lost yes try hard but come to me before it goes off the rails and that's a part of building their judgment explain what that looks like um this is by the way the most rewarding thing you can do i think so stretching and growing your people is super fun now look i don't run a company in theory but if you go read my post today on linkedin you'll find that i encourage people to follow my operating partner jason now he's part of my company sort of right we have a contractual relationship but i'm putting him forward trying to grow him and give him opportunity i talked about this anonymous person uh that i'm not naming um who's helping me out but who's here as a student again what am i doing i'm growing that person putting them forward talking about them encouraging them plus i'm telling them how much i appreciate them all in one move the point of this is this has to become second nature as a leader to always be thinking about how do you grow your people and if you do this really well they are always there for you now i want to tell you honestly just straight up i got pretty good at this i am not great my wife was a director in uh a medical company she ran a medical supply warehouse with like 110 people in the warehouse and some people in the front of the warehouse and blah blah blah her team would pick her up and carry her around on their back they loved her so much as a sign of respect they called her boss lady because it was a mostly male populace working like i'm decent at this and i can but but there is so much more there's another guy i know i can name him his name is miguel rock he's chief operating officer of the bezos academy system his teams adore him he built merch by amazon for me the t-shirt business when he left his whole team turned out for the farewell party like you can go so far down this road and it's because you're investing in your team your team will pay you back why let's ask you all why you've had good bosses and bad bosses all of you have now let's think about the good boss and think about the bad boss how much more will you willingly do for the good boss and the bad boss it's not a hard question for the good boss you'll spend your weekends you love to work with them you'll run through walls for them you'll take risks for them you'll stick with them in hard times and for the bad boss you're like man i can't wait to get out of here and i sure as hell except that i'm afraid of you and i need my paycheck i'm not going to do one extra thing for you that's why this matters so jay great question go to it tony uh if your team success is essential to stand out how do you deal with a peer in a different discipline who is holding your whole team back but for whom you have no direct control hmm let's see i guess the first question is why and the second question is how so why are they like what's in it for them uh if they're holding your team back it's either collateral damage or they have a reason where they think it's benefiting them so the first thing is to figure that out because if you don't know why it's gonna be hard to deal with them because they're gonna because if you don't know why it's gonna be hard to get around um the second thing is what's their mechanism how are they achieving this nasty feat because if you can't figure out if you want to break their control over you've got to know what's their mechanism control so that you can circumvent it it feels like the way to get around something like this first i would love if you could influence them if you get them to change their mind build a relationship with them show them how things can be a win-win all of that is the right first thing to try i'm kind of assuming that you've tried to make nice and redirect them and for whatever reason it's either benefiting them or they're a jerk and they're not going to help you in that case your tricks are find a way to showcase your team's work and find a way to influence the people above you or get other people to see what's going on often you can do this by publishing i won't say better facts but more clear facts about your team in other words sunlight is a great disinfectant how much can you showcase your team's situation without obviously blaming um an example of this i love not very many of you know necessarily i don't know some of you may not be fans of nascar racing i am not a huge nascar fan but if you know anything about it they joke that it's drive fast and turn left because they just race really fast around an oval track for a long way and then somebody's finally first but watch an interview sometime after a driver has just been in a wreck and watch what they say what actually happened is car five hit car three and knocked car three into the wall the reporters go to the driver of car three wanting him to give them a great sound clip about how the driver of car five is a jerk but they're all media trained and so what they say is first they say the burger king ford was having a great run today so the reporter says what happened that you got in a wreck with the number five car they don't say anything about that they name their sponsors they say the burger king ford was having a great run today on message they're not talking about car five they haven't even mentioned car five yet they say then they say unfortunately the number five car got into us didn't hit us wasn't malicious guys not a jerk it got into us like it's magic the number five car got into us and then unfortunately we got into the wall we're not even gonna blame the wall the car got into us we got into the wall and it's really bad because the burger king ford today i'm so proud of our team that put the car on the track we were running well and we'll be back next week now you might wonder what the hell did ethan just say no matter what question you're asked you can redirect it to talk about the work of your team the the question was number five ran you off the road are you mad you know the number three car the burger king ford was running great today you just answer the question any way you want it talks about your team now you can pre-plan this with your team and just think about how are you going to showcase your team's work no matter what is asked of you and you stay on message now this is pr training think this way of how am i going to talk up my team and see everybody knows then everybody knows what's being said here there are certain key phrases when when that driver says the number five car got into us he's saying that jerk hit us but he's not saying it saying it everybody knows though and if you wonder about this everybody knows how many of you have seen a vp in your company leave to spend more time with their family translation fired right translation fired most of the time but nobody says that because why do we need to insult that person or cause a scene yeah ethan's ethan's uh stepping away not not leaving even stepping away to spend more time with his family actual truth i was caught embezzling i'm out nobody's gonna say that though because it see another lesson they can't say i was embezzling why because unless even though i took three million dollars unless they're going to file charges and wait until i'm convicted in a court of law saying i'm an embezzler is slander because it's not a proven allegation so they can't say we're firing ethan for embezzlement they say what actually happens right if they don't have ironclad proof is they say look if you give us the money back we'll just fire you and say nothing you can go get a job and embezzle somewhere else that's how it actually works and so i give the money back if i got caught we both signed non-disclosures i go off to embezzle somewhere else they have their money back and they say ethan's leaving to spend more time with his family now you may all hate this i'm just i'm here telling you truth all right so ah that was fun thank you um abhishek guidance about long tenure in a single company versus jumping ships okay my thoughts on this have somewhat evolved and it's getting dark in my room the sun went away sorry about that uh i don't want to be the hidden person in the dark for you um um i spent 15 years at amazon i also spent the standard two to three two to three year tenure moving between startups for 12 years before that so i've done both the thing i've realized about amazon i had a great career there i did better at amazon than i did at the startups not just financially but personally i enjoyed the work more and i grew faster and i grew from leading an initial team of six the day i walked in the door to leading a team of eight hundred nine years later but amazon grew 100 fold during the time i was there that is extremely rare so if you're at a fast growth company it can make sense to stay a long time i call it riding the elevator or riding the escalator we've all been in the airport where the sidewalk is moving it's easier to go fast on the moving sidewalk so if the company is going and prospering and growing it makes sense to stay on that sidewalk and still keep walking down it or if you like the escalator idea keep climbing up it but i pick on the post office no one moves up at the post office until the postmaster gets old dies or retires there is no place to move at the post office you either deliver letters or you're the postmaster there are no middle positions in an extreme example so if you're working at the post office you either accept that you will move up if you're lucky when the postmaster retires or you're going to have to go somewhere else so this is situation dependent the factors are is your company growing is your management chain supportive remember the number one factor in moving up is is your manager supportive is your manager an advocate do they have pull we're going to talk tomorrow about which managers what happens if your manager is new and doesn't know how the systems work but if you have a veteran manager who knows how the systems work and likes you and you've built a relationship by volunteering to help them and following the things i recommend there and they're busy advocating for you yeah you should stay they're going to help you faster because remember when you change companies you may get a crappy manager or you may get a company that told a good story and then craters it's a little bit of a dated example but everybody who joined in ron thought they were joining a great company right until it went bankrupt there's probably a more modern example of the same thing i should think of um so there's risk in changing but bottom line is to me it's growth rate plus manager advocacy all right ethan in the zoom chat there are two follow-ups to that question you'll see i posted it okay question 10 and then from sundeep and yeah i also uh we're at the end of time so i'm actually going to end up taking michael clive's questionnaire because i find it fun but can we extend to answer a related question would progress be better or worse if you tried to fix your issues in the same or a new company um i believe assuming your issues are actually yours you've looked at them and realized i have a weakness i should grow you're better off at least partially fixing that or making some progress before you switch companies so that you don't take the taint with you so you don't recreate the problem at the new company if you end up truly deciding that i just don't match this company this company values a and i'm really good at b then that's not an issue it may be an issue in the company you're in but the right way to fix it is change company so for example some companies are profit driven they're they're focused on quarterly results and turning in the best short-term results some companies are long-term and strategic if you're a strategy person and that's where you lean long-term value then being in a short-term profit driven company is not a match on the other hand if you're one of those people who's like i like to make the money i like to do things quick i get bored every three months go to the profit driven company you'll be loved find your map so um you have to figure out are your where are your issues coming from okay second question um when thinking about a fresh start what are your thoughts on a new role in an org under a different svp versus a new company um it depends on what your uh if the if it's far enough away the great thing about moving internal to a company is if it's far enough away to reset your impression that your old impression isn't going to follow you then you get to bring all your body of knowledge of that company's culture and maybe technology or market with you so that's a great move if it's not going to truly get you a clean start then it's just rearranging the deck chairs on the titanic so the question is can you get far enough away that your reputation won't follow you and if you can and in some of the huge companies you clearly can right they're so big that a reputation or an impression isn't really going to follow you this other question i just said i take is um how long should it take to figure out how systems work i've been at nvidia for two years should i understand everything or do i have another year or two i mean look i've not worked at nvidia but two years is you better be hitting your stride of course you always have more stuff to learn but you'll you'll um you better be hitting your stride the way i look at things there's a book called the first 90 days talks about how to ramp up in 90 days it's a very good book if you're starting a new job i always looked at it as um the first 90 days i'm learning very broadly speaking the second 90 days i'm figuring stuff out and starting to contribute and from six months on i better be doing my job now it did take me two years to fully learn amazon um okay and fully is of course in quotes but after two years you better be pretty solid uh yes henry modern enron is we work it's another great example of it was great right until it wasn't so when you're changing jobs just remember the grass may look greener and it may be we work with that i know there are a lot of questions left we'll have another q a session tomorrow it will be longer so after talking for three and a half hours i can feel my voice going i'm going to go drink some hot tea with lunch and i will see you all here at 9am tomorrow however jason is going to take a quick break i'm going to turn over ownership of the meeting to him i highly recommend that um let's see i could show the slide but the next slide just says we're going to take well i will show it let me show this slide and set it up so give me one second we want to share a screen uh share that screen so i'm going to turn over control the meeting to jason i'm going to make him the host that way when i leave he'll be in charge i'm going to get rid of the questions um this is what we're going to do you're going to take a break then there's going to be three rounds of networking they're going to be 20 minutes each round you're going to have three people in each group this is your way to get deep with some peers a lot of you did the right thing you posted your linkedin you can add a hundred people that way but get to know some people each person introduce yourself share two takeaways you've gotten from the class so far that will force you to think about what you've learned that you value and that you can discuss share two steps that you're going to actually do this is important by the way why would you do this well once you publicly commit to something it actually raises your odds of following through there's plenty of science behind this that i won't explain but actually committing to someone else that you're going to do something raises the odds you'll do it just by saying it and then as each of you does this you can all talk about it there'll be three rounds you can spend an hour you can meet six other people and get deep with them and it will enhance your learning with that said jason we should stop the recording because we're done for today