thank you all for being here and tell you very quickly how excited I am to teach this class because I don't want to see any of you stuck places I was stuck. So if I can help you pass that, that's my number one goal. We advertise this, of course, as stuck at senior manager. You might be stuck somewhere earlier in your career. You might be stuck somewhere later. I recently did a post, probably many of you have seen it, called Two Damn Mini Senior Managers. Broadly speaking, it's always been hard to grow past this level, and this course predates that post. But the problem has gotten worse, particularly in the large tech companies, because I coach people at every large tech company, of course, at Amazon where I work, but I have clients at Google, clients at Meta, clients at Apple, clients at all of the large companies. And they all report the same thing, which is those companies did layoffs, and now they have more people in leadership than they really need or want, but they want to retain people like you, the high performers. So they haven't laid you off, but they don't need to move you up. And so that's made the bottleneck worse. And so to move up, it is going to be necessary to stand out. And that's what the course will cover the next three days. For now, let me jump in to the pre-work. Nice. I love the people. Thank you very much. We tried to find... I love the people who are watching from all over the world. I see someone, Derek says he's in Japan at 12 a.m. That's dedication, Derek. Thank you for being here. I see David from Munich. I love the international audience, by the way. I've made so many friends doing this around the world. But let me get in. I'll keep the chat up just so I can see it. But I'm going to jump in to our material for today. So by way of introduction, of course, I'm Ethan Evans. My bio isn't on this slide, probably because most of you have read it several times. Very quickly, though, I was educated as an engineer. I spent 12 years in various startups, and then 15 years at Amazon. I left Amazon three years ago to do this, to teach, to train, and help others. And I do it not because I have to work, but because I love to do this, and I hate to see people stuck. So I'm going to try to address that today. I have a co-host, Jason Jung. Jason, he's handling recordings, communication, admitting people to and from the waiting room, and all sorts of back office tasks. Like you, he met me online. We've only met in person one time, and that was just good fortune. But he's an enormous help and sort of the power behind the throne here. And I love that. Okay. So today, we're going to cover what you need to do to get the most out of the course. And that's really our first topic. The goal of the pre-work is not something magical that you must do. It's for you. This is an asset for you. And it's going to be how to get the most out of this breakthrough class. Today will be short and easy. It's stuff you can do this afternoon. It's stuff you may have already done, because Jason sent out a written version of the pre-work that should be in your email if you haven't found it. But today, I'm going to be asking you questions. I'm going to be trying to get you to think about your career, about where you're stuck, about what your goals are. The next three days, two hours a day, I will be giving those answers. So I'll be answering. How do you move forward? So today is driving you to think the next three days are really me providing you information. And I want to give you good news. You may not consider this the easiest good news, but as a senior manager, wherever you are, please be encouraged and realize, number one, if you stick with it long enough, you will definitely get promoted to the next level. I don't want to insult anyone, but I want to let you know that I have seen over and over people who possibly even shouldn't have been promoted eventually move up just because the way our systems grind forward across the span, eventually people get sort of a tenure-based promotion. Now, that's not what any of you want. You want to go faster, and we're going to handle that. But I want to at least give you the confidence that even if it's frustrating, you will eventually get your move upward. And in fact, I know one of my clients is watching this and is stuck exactly there. I won't name names, but he is in that ugly waiting period. The point I want to give you, though, that's more good news. Remember, if you're watching this, you're well enough paid, you have the money for the class. You speak, read, and write English, which is the current global language of business, and you're working somewhere probably in high tech, but not necessarily, your life is already going extremely well. And so it's frustrating as it may be to be stuck. I just want to remind you that it's all going to work out. And one of my biggest regrets is how much I stressed about it without believing that I was going to get there. If you keep up what you're doing, you will get where you're going. And I just want you to hear that from someone who went through the journey. I had all the same worries and stresses you probably do now, but I ended up there. And I was able, you may beat me by a few years, I hope you do. You may not, but I was able to exit my primary career at age 50, choose what I wanted to do, and you see me here. So let's keep going. For actions that I would recommend today, spend some time thinking about your ultimate goal. Promotion, you came here to get unstuck at senior manager and presumably to get promoted to be a director, a vice president, a senior vice president, a C-suite executive, whatever your title and role goals are. But what is your ultimate goal? Where are you headed with your life? Because a promotion is a good interim step, but where are you going? And I would encourage you to take the time to figure that out because it will help you better navigate your path. This ties in to my previous point that you're going to get where you're going. I was focused only on moving up and not really on where I was going when I got there. I figured that out later. I figured out where I was going and I altered my path. But you can do some of that work now and start picking out where it is you want to end up because since you're a successful leader and will be a successful executive, you have choice and agency over what you do. The second thing you need to do, and we will go into more depth on that, is pinpoint exactly where you're stuck. So this is our agenda for today. We're going to talk about figuring out where are you stuck? How can you take stock of where you stand? And we do have to ask how much are you willing to change? You're probably stuck for a reason, and you may not even agree with that reason why people are so-called holding you back. But if they are, you may have to make some changes in how you behave. And this is actually our biggest stumbling block. We all want to be loved as who we are. We all think we're pretty good. But it may be if you want to move up at least where you are, you have to make some changes that will be difficult to hear and hard to implement. So your ultimate goal. Breaking through to an executive role, as I said, is your next tactical step. But let's ask why do you want that? Pay is good. You're already well paid, but you'll be paid more. Each promotion at this level, particularly in tech, usually worth at least $100,000, maybe several hundred thousand dollars. I obviously coach a lot of people at the vice president level and up. I know what they're paid. There's a lot of money to be made. But ultimately, you can also have a great life at the pay you currently have. So more pay is great, put it in the bank, allow you to retire. But is that your ultimate reason? Is it the impact you'll have? Do you want the control, the influence? I am not judging any of these. It's worth pinpointing why do you want to climb the ladder? Is it just because someone put a ladder in front of you? The why matters because it will serve as your motivation. You're going to have to do some hard work over a period of years. Knowing why you're doing it may lower your stress. You'll be less upset and give you more positive motivation. So let me take a minute and talk about what I got and what it cost me. What did I get by climbing the ladder in Amazon? I got better pay. I also, frankly, got an easier job. The hardest jobs I ever did in Amazon were at the director level. So good news, bad news. You're actually going to move into a job that is harder. And then if you keep going, it gets easier. At least it did for me. The director level job gives you a bigger scope, more people, and yet it is not high enough. It's not high enough, at least at the large companies, where you have a lot of autonomy. So you don't necessarily have the autonomy as a director in one of the large companies to set broadly your own agenda and originate your own projects. As a vice president, I did. And so as a director, I was still simply working largely at the strategic direction of others and long hours. The other thing, frankly, that happens when you reach vice president is you start to get a little bit of slack on needing to know every detail. As a senior manager, you're probably at most companies expected to be on top of every detail in your group. Yes, you can always say, I need to check and I'll get back to you. But generally speaking, you're expected to know all the details. When you move to director, my experience is that largely continues. You're still expected to be very, very deep. At vice president, when I had up to 800 people and some of my peers now at a place like Amazon would have thousands, it was understood that you weren't going to know what everybody was doing. And so it actually removed some of the pressure. So, hey, good news. There is an executive washroom in the old model and you are eventually given a key to that and invitation to the executive lunchroom. Those may not exist physically, but there is a little bit of a club mentality at that higher level where everyone in the club, your peers, give you a little bit of slack on needing to be as deep in the details. So what I got was more pay and ultimately more autonomy. What did it cost me? The main cost was time, time away from family, high travel, oftentimes high stress. So you already have a very hard job. I am warning you, challenging job, right? The senior manager job is very challenging. If you move up to the next level, particularly, and even beyond that, you will have continued high stress that you'll need to figure out how to manage in your life. And this class is not mainly about that stress management. I am just giving you sort of a picture. And ultimately, it probably cost me family time. So answering you, giving you the sort of underbelly, I have been a quite successful executive. I would honestly say I have been a mediocre parent. And I don't say that like that is a good thing. I just want to be honest about it. I made tradeoffs there that you should be aware of and not make if you don't want them. Because it's very hard. I've posted about this before. You can go read it in our newsletter or archives. The challenge is companies don't set boundaries for you. Companies are machines. They're full of people, but they are legal corporate structures. And just briefly, what those structures are designed to do is give you an amount of compensation and then extract as much valuable work from you as they can. That's what the machine does. It turns human assets into corporate profits. I'm not judging that. I'm not saying it's good or bad. Just realize that's what the system is set up to do. And if you give it your overtime, if you work Friday night, if you work Saturday night, if you work all day Sunday, the machine is happy. The system of the machine will reward you. It will promote you. Sometimes it will give you a raise and a good rating, but it will never say to you, hey, maybe you should stop that. Maybe you should get more balance in your life or prioritize your family. It will never say that to you. Now you might have a good boss who might notice that and do it, but the machine itself will not do it. So just understand that is a potential cost of this path. You must set your own boundaries and decide how much of yourself you will give to the machine that you work for. And I love to work. I'm proud of my career, but I want to tell you it cost me. Quick further story. I had a peer that peer had gotten a divorce and he went to a support group for executives who had had a divorce. And he was an Amazon executive, but most of the executives at his sort of divorce support circle were Microsoft. And they were a little bit older than he was. He was a relatively young man at the time. And they laughed at him and they said, oh, you're here after your first divorce. You have more coming. And he was shocked and horrified, but they were casually telling him like, yeah, you'll probably have another. I'm not again, I just paint that as a picture. Don't pay too high of a price. Now let's focus on how to get you there. So moving to the other side of this side of the side, let's go deeper. What is your ultimate career goal beyond this point? Where are you trying to end up? And my favorite question, what's going to fulfill you? It says here, what's going to make you happy, but what is, what type of work is going to fulfill you so that you have no regrets in your career? Ultimately, few regrets in your life and you feel highly satisfied. And this matters for two reasons. One is of course, your personal satisfaction. But the other reason this matters is that if you find work you love, it will not be work. And so my story here at the bottom, three years post Amazon, I don't need to work. I'm very lucky in that sense, but I do this class and all the stuff. Many of you see online. Plus I coach a large number of people because it's fun for me. I don't do more of that work than is fun for me. So Jason, for example, who I mentioned earlier, he's helping me grow a Substack newsletter and helping me do a number of other things. Something we set up early and he's great at supporting me is if it doesn't seem like fun, we don't do it. In other words, if we have a chance to collaborate with someone or take on a new project, if it doesn't seem like it will be fun to do, we just don't do it because we've reached a freedom point where we don't have to. Now, of course, I'm not going to claim everything I have to do is fun. For example, email in one of my other windows is about my business taxes for the business that I'm a part of. My own business. So I have to do my state taxes. Well, obviously that's not fun. So I won't claim you can always have perfect fun, but I'm pretty close. What I do here is joy and I want you to start thinking about what that will be for you. Now, I'm not going to tell you you can get to senior manager by only thinking about what you enjoy, but if you're not going somewhere good, you're not going to get where you're going to end up somewhere where you've done a lot of work, you've made a lot of money, and you're not happy. And I want to help you avoid that by thinking now. So I belabored this point quite a bit. I'm going to move on. Just remember this point in blue, right? If you have children, someone else said also with your parents in 20 years, only your children or parents will remember that you worked late. Your company, you will have changed companies by that time. Wherever you work, maybe 10 or even 18 years in the rearview mirror from where you are today, they will not remember that you worked late. Companies don't have memories and the people leave. All right. So specific something you can do. Write out your end game in one sentence. Get it down to a tweet. Be specific. You ought to be able to do this in about one sentence. Where are you going? And what will give you meaning? Having those three short bullets of what's going to give you meaning. If you can start moving your work towards having more meaning, it will get easier to do. And a free story here, someone in the audience mentioned they got to know me on Twitch. I did this. So I did it later than you can, but when I became a vice president, the specific logic I went through is I said, okay, what's next for me? I've made vice president. I've worked really hard. I climbed this ladder. I am an executive. Now what? And I looked and I said, well, Amazon only has about a dozen senior vice presidents. Two things about them. Number one, they don't add very many. So it's going to be very hard to get there. It will probably take me about 10 years of more hard work. Number two, I looked at my peers and at that time I had about 300 vice president peers and I did an honest self-assessment, something we're going to talk about later in this deck. And I said, among those 300 top performers who are vice presidents, how good am I? And like all of you, I've gotten top marks all my life. I do well on all my tests, but I looked around at the competition and I said, oh, I am middle of the pack. I am more capable and harder working than some of my 300 vice presidential peers, but I am less capable and less brilliant than a good number of them. Given that about one person a year from this 300, excuse me, will become a senior vice president, am I that person? Can I get that one slot a year of the 300? And my conclusion was no, I can't or it'd be very, very hard. So I changed goals. I said, okay, well now what? If I'm not going to pursue that, what do I do? And I started mentoring. I realized I really liked to mentor. I started mentoring more. Ultimately, I started broadcasting advice on the Twitch platform. I no longer do that, but I did turn it into YouTube and I worked my way into the career you see I have now, which is helping people grow. That's what I did. What is your path going to be? So, all right, these are your first assignment, write out your end game and what's going to give you meaning in those three short bullets. So now let's transition to where you stuck enough philosophy. You're here to get unstuck, to help you get unstuck. We need to know where you are stuck. The more specific you can be, the easier the solutions will be. The more you can pinpoint where you're stuck, at least we know what we need to get you around. So I would encourage you, be deep and be honest about why are you taking this class? You paid the money, you signed up, you want to move up, but why specifically do you feel stuck? Because we're going to try and address that in the next three days. And try to step away from your own frustration, maybe with an individual, maybe you think someone is unfair. Step back and ask, why is my company not valuing me at the next level yet? If I put on their eyes and I listen to what they're telling me, even if I don't agree with it, what are they saying? What am I seeing? We're going to talk a lot about this the next three days. Who are they promoting? What do you see in terms of who is moving up? By the way, politics is too easy of an answer. Why are those people being valued? And what are my gaps? What is holding me back? What do I need to change? So this is important. Let me tell you, by way of a story, illustrate looking at others. Early in my career, prior to Amazon, I held vice presidential roles at startups. Those were equivalent to senior manager roles. I managed 20 to 30 people across a small set of teams. But in those roles, twice, I had peers who seemed incompetent to me. It seemed like they weren't motivated. It seemed like they were critical of the company. It seemed like they were not adding value or one of them was a salesperson and he was selling deals based on things our software didn't do. So the classic, oh my God, what did sales commit us to now? Which I'm sure many of you have experienced the wait, you told the customer our product does what? And I was really frustrated because I thought and I complained in each case to my CEO, two different CEOs, two different companies. What is this idiot doing here? The key is I wasn't seeing correctly why they were valued. In one case, I ran engineering and my peer was product management and the product manager kept saying we wouldn't hit our dates. I see the question somebody asked, by the way, in chat, what if we don't know why we are stuck? I will come back to that either at the end of this or in Q&A. You can ask me again. It's a great question. We can fix that, but it's covered in later slides. So in any case, this product manager was very critical of our product and said we wouldn't hit our dates and we wouldn't hit our projections. And I was young and gung-ho and I saw this as disloyal. Like here's this guy, he's part of our startup, we're all in this together and he's nothing but negative. The thing was he was right. He had more industry experience and he had the judgment to see we were being too optimistic. I was full of we're going to do everything, we're going to take the world, we have such a smart team. He actually had the better view, the more experience. I had a blind spot. My blind spot was I didn't have enough. I had been brought in in an industry I didn't know that well and he was a veteran and he could see that we were biting off more than we could chew and I couldn't. Here's the key point. My CEO valued him and I didn't understand why. The point for you if you feel stuck is this. The people who are getting promoted around you, who are getting to the next level, leadership in the company sees something of value in them. Figure out what that is. As opposed to being mad that the idiot was promoted, I should have been studying why was this person valued and later in my career I had managers at Amazon whose style I didn't care for but I had learned to see oh why does Jeff Bezos value this person? Why does Andy Jassy value this person? It's not because they do exactly what I do and it doesn't mean what I do is not valuable but why are they valuing this person highly enough to make them a trusted insider? The answer varies but studying why does the leader trust the person they are will give you clues as to what it takes to move up. That's the key lesson here. By the way in the other example with the salesperson we were a startup with no revenue. The CEO valued the revenue stream that will allow us to stay in business and to raise money. We needed signed contracts and this guy was bringing in signed contracts and to some level candidly in a startup that was on the brink of financial insolvency the CEO didn't care if we could do it or not. He cared if we had a signed deal that we could raise money against. Figure out the execution problem later. Now you may not like that. I didn't necessarily like it or think it was perfectly the right strategy but I learned to respect oh we need revenue? This guy's bringing revenue? He's actually valuable even if he's lying. Hard statement? Well if you're in a startup that's on the edge tell the lies, stretch the truth, whatever. I'm not advocating it but a strategy that happens a lot is over promise and then figure out how to deliver. He over promised we had to figure out how to deliver but it kept the company in business and we did ultimately deliver it was just a lot of pain. My point here was my point here is not be unethical and lie. My point is understand why the people around you are being valued. That's the lesson. This story says by the way times I felt stuck. When did I feel stuck? I often felt stuck when I didn't know what it was going to take to get to the next level or when I felt I was being held back from the level mainly on tenure. Oh well you just haven't done it for long enough. Let's address that real quick. Some of you may feel you're doing everything you need to. I had people come to me all the time and say why aren't you promoting me? You gave me a good rating. Why aren't you promoting me? The answer is in companies there is a level of conservatism where we're trying to figure out let's say you joined you you've had two good years as senior manager. You've delivered one major project and you killed it during those two years. Lots of little things and you come to me and you say Ethan I think I'm ready for director. I've got the scope. Why am I not up for promotion? The harsh answer is in part we're trying to figure out if you're lucky or truly good. Did that project you ship? Was that really you or was that inertia? Was that the machinery of the company and can you do it again? The promotion mechanism is designed to have high fidelity to avoid errors. That's not what you want. You want a mechanism that's designed to empower you and trust you and give you more responsibility but particularly at larger companies the mechanism is designed to have a low error rate and one of the best ways to have a low error rate is more data. So simplistically put when you get that oh let's wait six months. Let's wait until you are doing the job for longer. They're trying to get enough track record to say okay Ethan has now delivered four projects over six years at this level of complexity. He can do it repeatably. He can do it reliably. Now we will promote. I felt stuck in these situations because basically the only thing that was holding me back was time. So be aware that when you get remember and I've said this before to people no one will feel you're ready for promotion generally speaking unless you have low self-confidence. No one will feel that you're ready for promotion sooner than you do. You will be the first person to be like I am ready. I'm good to go. I'm doing this job. We are our own most forgiving judges. Anytime we do something well we 100% notice it. This is important. Your boss doesn't necessarily and your skip level doesn't. They're not paying as much attention to your career as you're paying to your career. So of course they notice 50% of what you do that's good 80% of what you do that's good. Contrast that anytime we make a mistake or have a setback we immediately know all the reasons that happen. This person was out. That engineer made a mistake. This marketer you know whatever we we know very quickly oh we had an unexpected system outage. Oh we had high turnover. We want forgiveness because there's a reason something went wrong. See we look at it and say well yes the project was laid but let me list the reasons. But what do we do to other people? See the key phrase if you want to write something down from this class if you're sitting there and saying oh I want to take notes the key phrase to learn from is we judge ourselves by our intentions but ourselves by our intentions but others by their actions. And when we judge ourselves by our intentions we know it was our intention to ship on time and something went wrong. It was our intention to turn a profit and there were unexpected costs. It was our intention to hire a good person and the interview loop failed us and that's why they're on a performance plan. Our intentions were good. We want to be judged by our intentions. The challenge is others judge us by our actions. You made a bad hire. Your shipment was late. We're in the red on this project. Excuse me I've had a bit of a chest cold. I apologize. When others judge us they look at what we actually produce by our results and we do this to others. Be aware by the way when they have a setback we're like yeah that group didn't deliver to us. We're judging their results. Believe me their intentions were to deliver it just didn't happen. The thing you have to be aware of is when you feel that frustration of why am I not moving up part of it is true whatever the blockers we're going to help you overcome but part of it is we are our own most favorable judges. So what do we need to do? Here's the specific. We need to convince the people who make the decision that our actions show that we are reliable at the next level. That's what you have to do. People get promoted because a someone is needed at that level and b you are trusted to have an impact at that level and we're going to cover the standards of executive performance in hour one on Tuesday and hour two on Tuesday. We're going to go very deep into this but what fundamentally gets you promoted is that you are trusted to make an impact at that scope. That's the one sentence so you're trying to prove that statement true. Okay so here are your actions. In order to rank the top three reasons you are stuck someone asks the question what if I don't know why I'm stuck that comes next. That's the next set of slides. Here are a partial list of reasons to consider. Do you have the relationships? Some people here there is someone in this audience who is technically brilliant and delivering but you're hard to relate to. Maybe you don't have the best relationships with people in some other function. You don't respect. Maybe you're just not soft, warm and fuzzy and not asking people how their weekends are. Whatever. Maybe you have an unresponsive manager. So maybe you're blocked. Some of you have great advocates in your manager. They can't get it done. Some of you have managers who say oh you're doing great. Skips are great. You're doing great. You're doing great. You're doing great. You're doing great. You're doing great. You're doing great. You're doing great. Maybe you don't have the scope particularly during downsizing. Many of you will have heard the criticism oh you don't have executive presence. We have a whole segment on executive presence I think Wednesday second hour. Maybe you're unclear what's needed at the next level. Maybe you're told you don't think big. You don't innovate. We cover that as well. But figure out your gaps. Okay how do I do that? Well clear self-assessment is the key. The first thing you need to do is set aside your ego. All of us want to be great. We think we're great. We got high marks in school. We probably went to prestigious graduate schools but all of us have weaknesses. I'm going to be really candid here. The biggest blocker you have is you're not listening to the feedback to figure out your your gaps. Doesn't mean that everything anyone criticizes you for is true. What it does mean is that there is some kernel of truth in the feedback. Remember this is important. Another thing you can write down if you wish. Every time you're given feedback either A. the feedback is accurate and you have a gap or B. the person thinks you do and if they are in any position of power the fact they think you have a gap is still a problem. You still have to address their perception. Now we all love to use that as a loophole. Oh yeah okay I get it now. It's not that I have problems. I'm still perfect. It's that other flawed people around me misunderstand me. Don't go down that path. Start with the belief that you have something to change or learn and if you don't change or learn that then that's on you. It is true. Occasionally people are misunderstanding you but even when they're misunderstanding you or they have a belief about you that isn't accurate you have to figure out what's giving them that belief and what do you need to change so that they see you differently. That doesn't mean you have to be a people pleaser and suck up to every person but it does mean if people are giving you feedback you got to figure out why they have that expectation of you and your role. Several people in chat are talking about what is the rubric for promotion? How do you develop it? Is it written down? We're going to talk about this in more depth the next couple days. There are ways to figure out the so-called rubric and it comes down to observing other people. Who else is getting promoted? Why are they getting promoted? What have they done that stands out? It's exactly in the story I just told. It's observing this PM is negative. It seems like a flaw to me. Why are they valued? They're valued because they have great insight in our market segment. They're being valued for their insight. This salesperson seems to be selling things that we don't actually do that are off mission. Why are they being valued? It's because we need money. It's because as a startup we're struggling to survive. We're struggling to survive. Figuring out why is someone valued tells you what's valued by the higher level. The higher level in one company desperately valued revenue. The higher level in the other company they valued positivity but they valued industry insight even more. That's how you figure out and triangulate by many data points what are the people above you valuing. Going back to where you stand here are some specific things you can do. Go back to your reviews. You have reviews. They may have been verbal. They usually are written. Really look at the both strengths. What can you do more of that will make you stand out and weaknesses? What are the gaps that you need to close? You often have a written review that is mainly from your boss or your boss your manager does the summary. Interestingly promotions are done by a whole room full of people in often cases. Your skip level is there. Your skip levels peers are there or your manager's peers are there. They're the ones making the decision. What have they said to you informally? What have they written? What do they seem to value? Have you spoken to them? This is really important. The easiest single tool and we talk about this more in the class that you can use is go talk to your peers and particularly your skip level peers. Have a quick meeting with them and ask what am I doing well and what can I do better? As a part of my coaching I am often hired to do a 360 for people and so what I do is there's a leader and I end up talking to eight to ten of their peers and managers peers and asking them what does this person do well? What could they improve? And that feedback almost always forms a pattern. So let's say I get three things they do well and three things they can improve and I get that from 10 people. It's not 30 different things they do and 30 different things they can improve. The overlap is about 75%. When I take all that data and boil it down into a report I usually can bucketize what they do well, 30 pieces of data under four headings and what they need to improve, 30 pieces of data under four headings. Nothing prevents you from doing this yourself. Going out to those peers and getting that data. If you want to know where you stand you have to ask and we talk about this more in the class, you have to ask and then you have to ask and listen but you can get the answers. Finally look down. Who has quit your team and why? Research data shows that 70% of people leave a team because of conflict with their direct manager. Now they won't necessarily tell you that when they're leaving and you may not be their direct manager but 70% of people are leaving because of an issue with their manager. Specifically at the time they may say, oh I have a better offer, oh I'm getting more compensation but they started looking and if you ask them two years after they leave the researchers who came up with this data went back to people two years after they had left and said okay you've now been gone from Amazon or ACME Corp or whatever, your startup for two years, why did you leave? Well I didn't get along that well with my manager, they weren't supporting me. Now sometimes this is okay. If you're a senior manager you've probably let someone go or given them hard performance feedback and you've probably had the conversation with some number of people that said you know is this the right place for you? Well if that person leaves and they say it's because of their managers yeah I told you to leave you weren't doing very well but for the people who leave who report directly to you that you valued be aware two out of three roughly left because broadly speaking because of you and by the way I'm not throwing stones two out of three people who ever resigned from my team of my directs at some level they left because of me I wasn't fostering their career fast enough they didn't feel supported enough they weren't excited enough about the mission which I didn't get them excited just own it go ahead and own that a lot of the people who leave your team are leaving because of either something you are doing that they don't like or something you're not doing that they want all right so I've told you in um at the end it says there's a story here how I knew where I stood I specifically if you want to know I developed a collaborative relationship with my manager so that my manager would tell me transparently we were allies in my promotion process at least a vice president for my promotion to director we'll talk about that later I was blind I didn't know what I was doing I was new at amazon I didn't know what it took and so I actually didn't know where I stood and at some level I just got lucky to get promoted my story by the way is my boss it turns out wanted to leave amazon and he needed someone as a backfill and I threatened to leave if I wasn't moving up and so I got moved up because they couldn't afford to lose both of us that's that's in a nutshell a big piece there are other big pieces I will also share but one thing that really helped me was there was a gap and a need so where do you stand try to get down to a few key sentences on where you stand where you stuck what what are your assets people view as strengths what are the things and therefore we want to enhance them and showcase them what are the couple things you may need to address here's a key thing for your promotion if you're at a larger company which many of you are you know your document is going to be a it's going to have peer feedback from a number of people and b it's going to be reviewed not only by your manager but by several of your manager's peers at amazon that process is called olr or was organization and leadership review it's got a name at every company at google there's a panel system each company has some variation of this who's going to be here's the key who's going to be on that panel right we all think about oh your manager has to write your document and put it up but who's going to be in your document as your supportive peers and who's going to be on that panel if you can't list both of those then you're playing blind if you can list who's going to be in your document and sitting in judgment of that document then you're at least armed to play the game you at least know what the chessboard looks like so get that list now one to ten how confident are you in this assessment you'll maybe never be completely confident but how close are you and then be sure you're not being overly optimistic why is that not lower but the real action item from this is wherever you feel there's a gap who can you go talk to who can you go doesn't mean you go around begging your peers to support your promotion but it does mean you have a conversation with them about how they assess you and you try to foster that hey am i doing a good job what do you think of it what advice do you have for me how can you uh what are what are you looking for as i grow you do what's called a presumptive clothes and sales if we have any sales people don't know this the presumptive clothes is the classic car salesman of um what color would you like this car in is a way of presuming you're going to buy the car and we're only discussing would you like it in yellow or red or silver the presumptive clothes can be used um with your senior peers you say as you know i'm up for director this fall i'd like to make sure i understand any concerns you may have so that i can be sure to address them you're presuming that you're going to get to director and that you're going to address any concerns you just want the list okay um i was reading chat i'll move on my last question for you today and then we'll do some quick q a how much are you willing to change can you face and address any gaps you have we've covered this how much harder are you willing to work remember don't work so hard that you lose something in your life that you care about more but if it's going to take hard work know your limits know your boundaries of course it's better to work smarter than harder that is difficult right being productive takes a lot of hard work if you haven't read cal newports books so good they can't ignore you and deep work they will help you understand how to work hard efficiently so that it takes less time um will you risk changing jobs if you have a manager who's not supportive or you're in a company that's not growing are you ready to take that risk right now we have a lot of large companies that aren't growing and we have smaller companies that are growing i'm not encouraging anyone to leave their job necessarily i'm encouraging you to be realistic much of moving up comes from growth and let me be specific about that right now if your company is not growing which many of you are at companies are not growing there may be no need for a director or a vice president above you there's no opening until someone quits or gets promoted or there's a reorganization there may be no need for another person at that level and then when that position opens all of your peers senior managers also want that job contrast that to my situation at amazon i joined amazon i thought i was joining a very large company in 2005 it had 14 000 employees when i left it had more than 1.4 million employees so during that time amazon grew 100 full my first team at amazon was six people i was hired as a senior manager of six people by the time i made vice president my team was 800 people so my team size grew about 120x if your team is not growing at that rate it's going to be harder and take longer the big tech companies by the way the fang companies the large companies they are no longer growing at that rate it's not just amazon microsoft google meta they're either shrinking or growing very slowly understand that you can move up in those companies by doing the right things and we spend most of the course on what that takes but if you want to go faster you have to be at a place that is moving faster why was i able to move up why were the people why was i able to promote my people because our team grew a hundredfold right i was hired as a senior manager yes i kept growing with the team so i had to do the work to be the leader they let keep leading as opposed to hiring in over me but the opportunity was always there it's a huge factor another interesting diagnostic you don't need to move cities particularly with remote work you may not need to move cities but all of these things are constraints on your opportunity i coach some people who live in small midwestern cities they want to move up they don't want to leave their homes they don't want to uproot their families that's a fair choice but it limits their opportunity so from a story viewpoint i've covered this and we're at the end of the hour i was blind to some of my gaps i moved many times and that had family costs right i don't hide the fact that i ended up being divorced in my case it wasn't directly over a job i don't think my divorce came from a job i do think i missed things in my children's lives because i was at work so just as pre-work figure out what you're willing you came to me to get promoted you came to me to get unstuck i'm going to solve that for you but you have to decide what you're willing to pay into that process and by the way i'm not telling you pay your life pay your family into it i'm actually warning you against it but know that that's a risk the company will let you do that so figure out what you're willing to pay what are your limits in other words under what circumstances would you say you know i am stuck at senior manager and that's fine i get these other things instead i'm not going to sacrifice them if that's the cost i'm going to change companies or i'm going to wait but i'm not going to pay that cost and then create a plan to act on this course what are you willing to pay what are you not what are your gaps what are you not the course will help you with that that's its exact point but start making your plan i told you this good news at the beginning i'm going to revisit it you will almost certainly be promoted eventually the point of this course is to try to help you speed that up but remember it's going to happen if you go if you either stay where you are long enough until gaps open above you or you move to a company with higher growth it will happen you're high performing already you've gotten where you are if you want to speed that up we cover that in the course but i want you to feel good that you're already winning the chess game you have good pay you're likely to move up and you can start thinking about where do you want to move up too i was working on the amazon app store i didn't particularly the app store didn't inspire me i had the chance to move to work on games at twitch and at prime gaming games are more fun to me than running an app store so before i left to do the work i'm doing now that i told you i love i took an interim step where i still wanted to make the big money on amazon i wanted to do the big leadership job but i chose and i said well now i'm going to do it in an area i like it's okay to do that remember chess is many moves of many pieces and there are many ways to win know your end goal so you can make you can play the game your way and i do call it a game of course it's performance-based but i call it a game my final lesson here is about worrying too much i spend a lot of time worrying about my career path you do have to worry about it but if you simply work hard and work smart you can worry less and one of my biggest regrets is how much i stressed on this and i i hope this class will not only give you a path but help you stress less i have classes online not trying you've already paid for this class if you need more depth in other places the other classes are out there the big one that you may need to consider they're on kajabi and you get a discount for being in a class already you may need to consider either managing up how to build a better relationship with your boss we touch on that but it is not the main focus of this class or how to grow your leadership network again not trying to sell you anything telling you these exist value of coaching i won't go into this we'll cover it at the end of the class if you want to know more about having a coach the big thing a coach can do for you is a class gives you the information the coach can help you through the implementation that's the difference so that's my part of this you'll see these links again this qr code will be available if you want to find me in all these places that you haven't this is all available so i'm not going to spend a lot of time here because i want to turn it over to jason to talk about the rest of the course structure so jason um let me know when you want to advance slides and come off mute and take over okay perfect i'll go quickly on this so these are the courses for the next three days you have this in the syllabus the structure for each one will fall will follow ethan will give a lecture on the day's topic and then he'll go into specific how to dive deeps and then we'll end it with the interactive discussion slash q a ethan next slide okay next slide so in terms of question priority the goal is to maximize our time together so the first priority of questions are going to be about the how-to specifics that ethan covers that day priority two will be just general material from that session's lecture and then priority three will be general career related questions on this topic of breaking through if you have any logistics questions just slack or email me that's my email on the screen and then to streamline questions through through zoom raise your virtual hand if you want to enter a text question just type the word question in the box followed by your question and we'll go in queue order i'll monitor the chat in zoom and then lastly try to ask your question in 20 words or less so that we can get through as many as possible ethan will ask follow-up questions if additional context is needed so with that ethan next slide i know we're at time but does anyone have questions you could feel free to use zoom virtual hand or text chat so i'll spend at least 30 minutes here till 9 30 answering any questions you have so if you have questions we went in more depth on the intro than maybe i anticipated i'm happy to take questions and i'm going to kill the sharing also so that we can all look at each other golden opportunity many of the things that you could ask will be covered in the class but if you have questions about how to maximize or anything i said today how to maximize the value you're getting out of the class this is your chance to answer that question all right so i'll answer ray's question and jason you can decide what i do next i saw rays come in first i think we also have someone who raised their hand yeah let's do raven jump to veron and then brugget okay so what other examples of value observed by leadership that have been blind spots by you uh okay yes so at amazon i worked for some leaders that i want to be careful with what i say here because um i don't want to criticize anybody unduly but i worked for a leader whose style was very different than mine and who um i did not think was the highest performance executive in terms of getting things done uh but that person had earned jeff bezos and andy jesse's trust because a they were willing to take on any assignment given so they had moved from area to area in the company whenever there was a fire jeff would go to that person and say i know you don't know anything about this function but i need you to go take it over and make it um reliable and clean up the mess stim the bleeding and that person would jump to any function uh and i'm sorry i'm having to be abstract because i i don't want to identify anyone but they went to very very different functions so imagine these are not the functions but imagine me as an engineer jeff bezos comes to me and says look i know you don't know anything about aws sales in latin america but i need you to take over aws sales in latin america and get it on track i know you're not a salesperson but build the org blah blah blah and they would do it that person never moved up beyond vice president and i think was a little frustrated by that but they were highly valued because they were willing to do whatever was asked even if they weren't very good at it and it took me a little while to recognize because i saw this person as like you're not actually very good at what you're doing you're not by the way i want to be fair if you compare them against average humanity the average man or woman on the street this person was like all of us very smart very well educated very hard working they just weren't amazon brilliant you know i told you honestly i stack ranked myself in the middle of the 300 people i would have stack ranked them in terms of certain types of ability below me but in terms of loyalty and willing to jump on a hand grenade they were way above me like i said i chose oh i want to go work on this work in gaming that i want to do their mental model was what does jeff want me to do i want to work on whatever jeff wants me to do now i'm just i just wasn't that in i like and respect and enjoyed all of my interactions with jeff bezos but i don't wake up in the morning and think well what i want to do with the rest of my life is whatever jeff wants me to do this person did and it took me a while to realize oh well would i like to have someone who worked for me who woke up in the morning and their number one drive was what does ethan want me to do today sure it's a little weird but what a handy asset well today i have this problem over here in this area go fix that tomorrow i have that problem over there go fix that this person was like a perfect agenda list mobile resource so that's an example uh veroon go ahead and come off mute what's your question first of all thanks for the class very helpful um you talked about you know certain gaps versus perception right like having quantifiable gaps is easier to address yes there's a perception which also you know comes from a gap but perception i feel like is harder to kind of get through versus a quantifiable gap that you can work through so how do you kind of you know from a perception standpoint how do you work that or like any or um things that you would have say so let me make sure i understood your question you're basically asking if someone perceives you as having a weakness that you don't necessarily agree with what do you do yeah okay great question the first thing i would do is try to make sure you really understand so this is key we'll talk about this more in the feedback section how to get feedback tomorrow i think um don't argue but do ask them uh can you give me examples uh say look i hear you that you have this concern and i want to figure it out i'm not following you perfectly can you walk me through any specific examples ideally several of them so in other words if someone says uh hey verun i'm not sure i really don't think your team is that strong you haven't hired well you disagree you think you have a strong team you think you have hired well the first thing i'm gonna do is say i want to i want to understand that can you give me some examples of where you see weakness in my team or if they say it seems like you're often late or you push back too much on requirements say okay can you uh help me understand give me a few examples and if they can't give you examples right then challenge them and not challenge them in a fight way but challenge them and say look i need examples to address this problem um the next time you see it would you pull me aside and say you just did it or i just saw where one so you're trying to get examples the second thing you want to be able to do is get to where you can paraphrase back the concern to them and say you can also do this first but say i hear that you see a gap i'm struggling to understand it like would it be okay if i paraphrase it back to you and you say like it seems like you think i hire poorly is that correct and one of two things will happen either they'll say yes you hire poorly okay got it or they'll say no no no what i meant is you don't develop your people i think you hire okay but you get to clarification now the important thing here you're getting a double benefit from this you're not only getting an understanding of your gap or your perceived gap you're also building relationship everyone likes to feel understood and people will give you way more slack if they feel that you've listened so yes they are expecting you to make changes but understand just the fact that you you listen and acknowledge their view will raise their opinion of you usually i hope that helps room thank you for the good question it does thank you if you need a one a one-line buzzword ask for examples please show me please help me understand okay so i'm supposed to i'll let you direct me after this jason i'm going to do brijesh in writing in general at amazon how many years would you say it takes to get to director level after being a senior manager very specific amazon question i'll answer it briefly although i think it's true at many of the other large companies the stats showed it was five years in other words amazon has these stats you might even be able to get them from your leader or from hr but the dwell time the average dwell time at senior manager was 60 months six zero some people were more some were less in case you're curious i don't have those same stats for vice president i have my observations the fastest i ever saw someone go to vice president from director was 18 months it was a very unusual situation the longest i ever saw was nine years so i personally took six i was in the middle the 18 months everybody's like oh how do i do that you won't like the answer that person was due to having a poor manager was held back at senior manager too long so they became a director long after they should have and their boss once their skip level once they figured that out they fired the person in the middle promoted the person to director and then was like oh they're actually a vp and promoted them again so that person paid a very painful price in the beginning and it got made good later that's like a fairy tale great story if you live through it but it sucks on the journey jason who now lane in chat lane and chat all right question do you have a rough timeline of how long between stops along the promotion ladder well i kind of just answered that with the data i gave it definitely depends on your company and its growth rate i would imagine amazon particularly right now as an example is slowing down compared to what i said because very few people are getting promoted to give you another example i have people i coach at google the people at google have told me in certain cases that promotions are simply stopped they've just put a freeze on them for a year they've even told the people and by the way if you want to encourage people to leave these are great words to do it they've told people we're top heavy we have too many leaders and we're top heavy so we're freezing promotions for a year well honestly it's great they're that transparent plus to google for being honest and it's a factual statement they may not need more leaders at higher levels so they may not even be doing anything wrong but if you ever wanted a poster to go home and consider am i being best served in my career here that is a great check like now google is a very powerful attractive workplace that pays well so the answer to that valuation might be yes but man what a symbol okay next question let's do tc in chat okay can you elaborate the biggest regret you have is how much you were stressed what does that mean you didn't know it would work out but in hindsight it obvious yes so tc you've captured what i meant let me explain further probably like all of you i wasn't sure i would get promoted i wasn't sure when i wasn't sure i'd end up with enough money to retire and i worried about that a lot maybe you don't do it if you don't god bless you i worried a lot about would i make enough money would i have the success and what i see in hindsight is that all my worrying was kind of overkill um because you can worry yourself crazy about this every day uh honestly the fact that you signed up for this course shows that you feel frustration about where you are um and some of that frustration is healthy it causes you to take positive actions some of it is not healthy it stresses you out now what's the right balance i guess i would say realize careers i've posted on this before realize careers are very long my professional leadership career was 27 years that's more than probably just looking at the people i can see on the screen all of you look visually younger than me doesn't mean i can see all 74 people at the moment um but most of you are probably younger careers take a long time and many many times i saw people go up for promotion not get through and then they get through six months later i've coached people like that i've had people on my team like that what i'm showing you trying to describe to you in the arc of a 30-year career um six months is one sixtieth of that time even a year is one thirtieth of that time it's three percent if you're driving yourself crazy over a three percent difference it's not um it may not be worth it now if every promotion is taking you an extra year that's going to add up but just give it the right amount of worry not totally not not obsessively and that's what i did wrong is i was always on it always again talk to your manager about your path and have urgency but have confidence what i didn't have is i had a type of imposter syndrome i wasn't sure i would get there my bet is every single if if we could rejoin this group five years from now there's 72 people here because some people need to leave for their work i would love to do an alumni meeting five years from today and see how many of the 72 moved up within one year or two years right like i would love to see how many because and how many of you because and how many of you at five years i would bet 70 of the 72 have moved up and the other two opted out for personal reasons or something like that okay let's move on all right ethan let's do lane's question in chat and then d on uh purple okay great question is it more important to follow a good or advantageous leader or stay on a high value project i would go with the leader 100 as much as i love the high value project and high growth there is remember you cannot move up without your leader's support it's just not going to happen tell me the number of cases anywhere anywhere you've basically heard of or say oh yeah i knew this person and they had a terrible boss but their skip level promoted them over their boss's objection or without their boss's support that never happens of course when i say never there will be somebody who's like oh i saw it happen once and i'm sure it does but your leader and think about the people on your team if you stop supporting someone even if by the way you're just negligent let alone against them you're just you're too busy you're not working on their career you don't write their document you don't talk to some of your peers or your skip about them what are their odds of moving up basically zebra so the supportive leader is better now of course you want both you phrased it as either or what you want is the and but uh i would the only thing i would say is how good does the leader have to be you can get promoted and grow in your career under average leaders you just can't grow under bad ones so i wouldn't say you have to run away from every leader that you don't click with perfectly you have to learn to work with part of part of being successful is can you work with many different people here's a freebie for all of you who have stayed with i developed a mental model that i call the chameleon leadership model and what does chameleon leadership model mean very briefly chameleons change color to match their background now in my specific case you have a style i have a style when we're working together maybe i like like i'm an email person i'm not a big slack and chat person i like email because it's asynchronous this is a small point but the point is if you want to work best with me you email me however if i'm working with a person who likes to be contacted in chat i use slack with them i'm a chameleon if they need me to slack them or they need me to talk to them in person i do that if they like detail i try to give it to them if they like top line summary and then leave me alone i try to do that too how much can you be a chameleon the more you work with a person you can be a chameleon the more you can adjust your own style this is covered in the managing up class i referred to the more you can adjust your own style the better you can match up with people to fit and work with them and get their support and get their advocacy the point how this applies to promotion the more flexible you can be in working well with multiple types of people the less you need to run around trying to find the perfect boss because you can make the boss you have into an advocate the more you're rigid and you want everything your way and you have this ideal boss and if your boss isn't like that then you're uninspired the harder that's going to be for you because you have to go find those bosses only again i'm not talking about bad bosses we have a whole segment on what to do about bad bosses that comes up later this week i'm just talking about no one's ever perfect the better you can work with imperfect people the more successful you'll be d come on off mute and what's your question thanks easen so my question is simple can you talk a little bit about moving across different companies to look for the next level sure so this is a great question and it's a common question should i switch jobs i stayed at amazon and was promoted there and that led me to believe that staying the course was better i no longer am as sure that is right and it has to do with growth rate i stayed the course in amazon amazon claims i never saw the data but i was told they had data amazon so big so big plenty of people left amazon and then came back to amazon they would go and work somewhere else microsoft google a startup and then they would come back amazon's claim which i have not seen the proof of but i'm going to believe for this argument at the time was that people who stayed at the company moved up faster than people who left i no longer believe that is true at least of the very large companies and from what i've seen here's why the specific reason to consider moving is today if you're in a job there is one path to promotion more or less get grow your team grow your responsibility and demonstrate your abilities so that you're valued at the next level there's one path up and that's the you go from being a senior manager where you are to being a director where you are in your role maybe you can most companies do not allow for good reason you to become a director in a different role and the reason for that is it creates a bad incentive if i think you're good and i need to fill my role the easiest way to get you to leave your job and come and say oh if you come to my team i'll make you a director we don't allow that because at any level if you did that you could recruit very quickly but the point to your question is i have a choice between moving up in one role where i am and the thousands of other companies out there so it's it's it's a one versus a thousand problem the tricky part is of those thousand how do you pick well i i feel totally certain that if you could find the best of the thousand or there's way more than a thousand but if we say there's a thousand director level openings across different companies right now this instant today if you could find the perfect match it seems to me obvious that that's probably better than where you are the trick is that's a different complex problem so it's a little bit the devil you know versus the devil you don't my main pivots would be is my boss highly supportive do i have a manager who's trying to help me grow who's dedicated to me getting to the next level if yes probably stay second thing is my company growing are there enough opportunities or is it shrinking or stagnant those two things to me tell the story third though is tangential what will moving do to my life is it going to involve a city move is it going to involve a longer commute like there are other factors so for example i coach someone he's an individual contributor he works for one of the large companies and he works for one of the large companies and he's working full-time remotely in the city of his choosing and take and he took a six-week holiday this this summer he's frustrated that he's not moving up and on the most critical projects but i pointed out to him like look what like yeah you're at a large slow company and there isn't any clear path up on the other hand you're living in the city you want not going into an office and you took a six-week holiday that's tangential to the question of what's the best but just you have to consider basically i told him like yeah i these other companies you're considering will be better for you but they're not going to let you work remote and take six weeks off so which thing do you want to take next let's do mayank in chat mayank also raised his hand so if you're back and you want to ask it verbally go ahead all right i'll just read my own question how should one decide between staying the course with the same team versus making a change context managers director team will remain flat but skip levels team will grow over time i really just answered this how supportive is your manager how supportive is the director but if the team's going to remain flat you're waiting for someone to die or leave or retire yeah leave again there isn't enough context here to purely answer the question but i would favor within reason i would favor changing teams but the full equation is how supportive is the man the current manager what do you know about the new manager how likely is the growth to continue how rapid is the growth you make a little bit of a chart of it if the new manager is someone you also know and respect and believe you'll work well with and they're having rapid growth move if your current manager is highly supportive and the growth that you're going to be getting is not that much we're not that certain then don't move and remember we'll talk about a book called decisive i love in the book decisive um it talks about don't get stuck into a or b you you've made it stay where you are go to a different team well there's probably 10 other different teams and there's other companies think about the whole matrix don't just get down to a or b a b c d e f g what is your best option next question even we're two minutes so i'm going to choose feel free to jump and cherry pick go ahead okay let's do uh pratibas question it has two emojis uh okay what was that 12th one uh 912 912 protibaral got it yeah and so for everybody else i will answer one more question after this and then there will be q a each of the next three days so if after i answer this you want me to answer one more go up vote one other question in the list and jason will direct me to it meanwhile how do you identify the skip level peers to seek feedback from how do you figure out who is on the panel this is going to vary by company but step one if it's not okay let's take amazon as an example then i'll move on at amazon um the panel is almost always composed of your manager sorry your skip levels peers that's that's essentially who's in the room um and but the easiest way is ask your manager start with ask your manager say hey you're you're so you're helping me with this process let's run the process well because remember if you're a manager putting someone up for promotion and having them turn down looks bad for them because if i put you up for promotion so let's say jason works for me and i'm taking jason to all of you as a group and i say jason is ready to be a director i've worked with him he's done this he's done that here's the document we've gathered the feedback and the 62 of you know jason or look at the documents say you're not right it's a judgment of me as well as of jason right they're saying ethan you have poor judgment in who is a director so remember your we all think about this why is my manager not putting me up why aren't they doing the work look deeper and realize your manager wants to be right and is being judged on their judgment of personnel so that gives you a lever go talk to your manager and say look we both want to succeed here you don't want to put me up and look bad you want to look smart like you've developed a great person let's play the game well who's going to be on the panel who's going to be who do we need support from that's the easiest way because they know they're sitting in that room or they've put other people up you can also have this discussion with your skip and say hey i know that you're considering supporting me for a bigger role and i'm really appreciative who's a stakeholder here that i should be thinking about you don't look wrongly ambitious you look wise you're thinking about your stakeholders i want to make sure i'm doing good stakeholder management i'm not sure who all the stakeholders are as an example this was really smart when i was being considered for like a year in advance my vice president above me said hey you should try and get an svp as a mentor it would look really good because the svps are the people in the room and if one of them has been your mentor there'll be someone in your room who knows in the room who knows you and can speak for you so my vp helped me get an svp as a mentor and that mentor you can look him up he's a famous guy from microsoft his name was brian valentine brian valentine did a bunch of stuff at microsoft then he came to amazon then went on to be a vc whatever doesn't matter you don't need to look him up the point is my boss set me up to have this svp as a mentor i had a bunch of meetings with him and then when the decision when my document went to jeff bezos and his s team there was a guy in the room who said oh yeah i can i mentor ethan blah blah blah blah blah this is a secret weapon why critical secret weapon is to have someone else who's an advocate for you in that room because if i'm promoting jason they don't trust me they know that i've been working with jason and that i have reasons that i want to promote jason both it makes me look better i have a higher level person under me and it may be that i'm doing it to retain jason so everything i say about jason is slightly suspect well maybe that's true but maybe like our job here is to make sure you're not too soft but if someone else in the room is saying oh no no no i know jason i've worked with jason too he's really as good as ethan's document says it sails through and that's what my boss set up so um work with your boss to figure this out work you know and there are other ways uh but you have to do the research in advance okay what are we doing last jason last one is david 9 13 9 13 all right 9 13 there's a follow-up underneath okay uh i see them all right how do you not appear to promotion focus when asking for caps from skip level peers uh do it in the context of a project great question do it in the context of a project when you've done something or shipped something or uh whatever or do it in the context of another meeting um say hey we just completed the acme project don't make it about yourself we just shipped the acme project i want to make sure that all of our projects go really well what are three things you think i and my team did well on acme and what are three things we could have improved so you can ask it that's that's a way to ask the question without it being about you but it's really still about you because they'll tell you what they think you and your team did well and what they think you and your team did poorly so you can do it in a sort of context of a post mortem right or of a sprint review however you want to frame it and then you can always go a little deeper if everything they say is about your team you can just say is there anything i personally can do differently as a leader right and you're not asking well what will it take for you to promote me you're asking about the work that's how you do that follow-up how is connecting with skip level peers different from connecting with same level peers um it's the same as uh the difference of connecting your manager versus your direct personal peers your manager is at a higher level they have a bigger scope they have different concerns so um if you want their time you generally have to bring them something of value uh and or be brief there's great very short advice when dealing with executives that says be bright be brief be gone so have something concrete and valuable you want to talk about go ahead and do it and then leave where executives or skip levels get frustrated is where you seem to be clinging to them trying to maximize your face time um it always frustrated me at least when people would send me a thing that said hey can we have a meeting i'd love to talk to you i want to get to know you my thought just to run you through my thought process was jesus i'm already working 60 hours a week i'm missing time with my family if i give you another half hour or an hour i'm taking it away from my personal life and all you want to do is chat no have bring bring something of value um and so value is we have a problem to solve i have news to give you um i want to review a result with you i want to get your input remember your promotion process is multiple years long now some of you may be coming to me because you want help to get through it three weeks from now in the review that's coming up and we'll talk about that but if you're working on this a little bit longer of a horizon it doesn't mean you have to run out and meet with every skip level peer next week instead it means look for those opportunities to foster that relationship we're playing chess here not checkers you're trying to maneuver your pieces so that you win the game think a little bit strategically and be opportunistic and say oh we just shipped this project we just had this problem uh they just hired a new person or we just started a new project those are excuses to meet with that person by the way we're having an off-site we're having a gathering there's a social time these are all great opportunities to meet with them the key to moving up is seizing the opportunities as they appear not doing them all instantly all right so we've gone 40 minutes over i've answered a bunch of questions i know there's more there will always be more i'm going to cut it off here we have two hours each in the next couple days plus q and a time i look forward to seeing you all tomorrow the recordings will be available we'll start on time each day i hope i hope this has been super useful easy startup pre-work the next three days will be a lot of material i need to present and get through and then q and a but this is tested and i really look forward to working with all of you jason anything you want to add before we sign off last thing is i've captured all the unanswered questions even i will athen and i will discuss on how we want to tackle those afterwards so stay tuned all right but see everyone tomorrow all right cheers everyone see you tomorrow