All right. Good morning, everyone. Welcome to day two of Breaking Through to Executive. We're going to start with a hot topic, how to build and show executive presence. We have a lot to cover today, possibly slightly less than yesterday. We have the Q&A tool open. Of course, feel free to leverage the chat, talk to each other. We will end with Q&A and then another hour of networking that Jason will host. But before we get there, we have several hours of stuff to cover. So let's hit it. So we're in the middle yesterday of the third part of what you need to do to be seen as an executive. Today, we're talking about your company-wide stage. And one of the hottest topics where I want to be very specific is executive presence. A lot of people, a lot of you, based on the past, get hung up because someone tells you, well, the reason we're not promoting you more or less, you need to have more executive presence. But there's a challenge of what the hell does that mean? And so let me just take you through that a little bit. Executive presence, it's many different things. And the important thing is it's subjective and it's assessed by others. So it's you don't get to say, oh, I passed an executive presence test. Instead, how you behave leads people to decide Jason has executive presence. Ethan doesn't. That's what happens. So it's an output. Using language from Amazon, but that all of you can follow, there's an idea of inputs and outputs. Inputs are things you can control. They're things you can change. Outputs are things others care about, but that you don't directly control. An executive presence is an output. We're going to go upstream and talk about what are the inputs. So people with executive presence, they inspire confidence, trust and calm. People are willing to follow them. We're going to talk about two authors, both of whom have written books titled executive presence. One of them is Sylvia Ann Hewlett. She defines executive presence or breaks it down as 60% gravitas. How much you're taken seriously, how much weight there is behind your work, 30% how you communicate, speaking and 10% appearance. So this is good news. People worry, oh, it's how I look. It's how tall I am. It's how beautiful I am. Not really. We're going to look at the data on appearance and it's mostly, do you have a what's called put together appearance? It's not that you're beautiful or handsome. It's are you making an effort to look nice? However, appearance is the first filter. In other words, when someone first meets you or you first walk on stage or into a room, they haven't heard you communicate yet and they don't know necessarily how much weight and factor will be to what you're saying. And so appearance does set the first impression. So it's only 10% of the total, but it can set you on the right track or the wrong track. So this slide looks completely different than all the others. And there's a reason. I collaborate with my own coach, Sue Bethanes from Mariposa Leadership, and we just two weeks ago taught a new course. It's the follow on course to this one. There's four directors, VPs and up aimed at that audience and it's called Cracking the Sea Suite. But she found this data, which is from the author Sylvia Ann Hewlett I just mentioned. And this data is so compelling that this morning I stole the slide and brought it in because this data, though it's from 2022, was just published in 2023. If you want to understand what executive presence really looks like, this data is incredibly compelling. And I'll cover that in a couple ways. And by the way, it's also an advertisement for the course. The course is going to be held live again in the fall. We will bring it out as an on demand course here in about a month. But if you're at that level or know someone at that level or want to really go from like, how do I get to executive to two days on how do I be a great executive and skill training? That's that course. Coming back to this data from 2012 data from 2022, you can see some things have changed. Some things remain the same. The big thing I want to point out to you in this data, though, remember, I just showed you on the last slide, she ranked the importance of things gravitas communication appearance. Well, that's actually based on data, not her opinion, because if you look almost every trait that's about your gravitas, your seriousness, your weightiness scores higher than almost every trait in communication, which then scores higher than almost every trait and appearance. So people ranking all of these executives, ranking all of these follow that pattern. So Sue highlighted some of these things that she wanted to talk about in that course about displaying confidence, being decisive. Hey, I gave you a whole book called Decisive. You can do this. And then there's this joking and bantering manner. Where that comes in, it's the same in a way as ability to read audience. It's being able to be at ease and use humor and be calm in an executive presence situation. It's projecting that I belong in this room. So one of the people I coach, I have been encouraging them. They approach executives, people one level above them, as mighty Lord and master, how may I serve you? You will never have executive presence if you can't treat senior people, yes, with deference because they are higher level, but fundamentally as peer professionals. So if you radiate, you're the boss, I'm the servant, you won't be seen as having executive presence. If you radiate, yeah, of course you're in charge, but I'm also very good and have a right to be here. Very different. So I think, by the way, is telling a story or giving an opinion. The fact that I was never starstruck by the people I met is a big piece of my success. Did I defer to Jeff Bezos? Absolutely. Was I scared of him? No, that's the difference is I treated him like, hey, at some level you eat and go to the bathroom just like everyone else. You know, you're the boss, but that doesn't mean I don't have equal rights. All right. So moving on from this data, I said we talk about controllable inputs. The things you can control. How much confidence do you show? Certainly you can control how competent you are. You can also work on EQ, emotional intelligence, which is about being able to empathize with other situations. The core of executive presence is this is good news for many of you. It's how good you are. Are you right a lot? Do you have the skill? Do you have the knowledge? Can you simplify and clarify? This is the core. OK, there are a few people who can somehow radiate. Executive presence without knowing anything or being good at anything. That's not what I can help you with. I admit it exists. So-called blowhards or whatever that can radiate executive presence, even though they have nothing going on inside. But for most of us, we start by being good at what we do. Then you add influence and speaking ability. You add emotional control and composure, being cool under pressure. Awareness, being able to read the room, having that emotional intelligence to know, is this room, is this group of people ready to hear what I say? How is it going? Do I need to clarify? Are people confused? Are they disengaged? If you want to read a book on this, it's not in the list. There's a book by a woman. I can't remember her name. I'm sure you can Google it. The book is simply called Good in a Room, and that was her talent. She was a Hollywood negotiator, if I recall correctly, and her talent was being really good at reading a room and reacting to it and influencing it. So I'm not saying you need to read that book. It's why it's not one of the ones I show a picture of. But if this is your specific problem, there is a book on it. Because there's a book on everything. So, okay, thanks, Ethan. You've listed everything. What do I do? You have to identify the pieces of executive presence you're not good at and figure out how do I study those skills? How do I practice them? So here's some ways you can do that. First, look at other people who do have executive presence and then study them. You can go to meetings in the future. I know all of you have lots of meetings with a dual agenda. Agenda one is whatever the meeting's about. You need to participate. You need to listen. But a lot of you know there's a lot of times in meetings where you're down, there's downtime, and you're not really saying anything and the meeting's not going to get around to you for a little while. During those times, you can watch how others are managing the meeting. How do they speak? How do they read the room? How do they handle being pissed off or frustrated? There are also, these are just examples. There are many other ways to do it. If you struggle with public speaking, give more talks. Practice is how you do this. Go to Toastmasters. If you don't know Toastmasters, it's a club organization where you practice speaking. If you have trouble reading rooms, find someone who's good at it and ask them what they saw. Say, this is what I saw in the meeting after the meeting. What did you see? How did that decision get made? Who was in charge? Just talking it through will help you. Emotional control. Meditation is one trick here. There are many. Influence. Read Dale Carnegie. I think I have his cover in a second. How to win friends and influence people. It's a classic. Appearance. Hey, if that's your struggle, go to Nordstrom. They have personal shoppers that will make you look really sharp. They'll bankrupt you, but they will make you look really good. They'll bankrupt you, but they will make you look really sharp. So, if these are the things, there are ways to work on all of these. The point is, this is not some mystical thing. There's data of what executive presence is composed of, and there are ways to improve each of those items. That's the point. So, it's also worth noting that executive presence presents slightly differently depending on who's judging. So, on the right, I have from leaders, from peers, and from reports. Now, these are my opinions of what executive presence looks like, but I'm pretty sure they're accurate. A leader is focused on, are you competent, are you composed, and can I trust you? The question in their head is, will you handle what I need done? Can I trust you to just handle it? Peers are asking a different question. They're asking, is this person a partner or an enemy? Are they someone who's going to help my agenda or someone I need to deal with? Reports, the people under you, are wondering how you're going to take care of them. They're looking for clarity, consistency, calm. They're looking for who they can follow into battle and bring them out the other side. Do I understand our mission and tasks? Will this leader get me there safely? So, when you're trying to project executive presence or develop it, just understand it's being judged in this sphere. Now, you may say, well, I only need my leaders to think this. Not true. You want to have this holistically. When does executive presence get judged if I'm saying it's judged by others? Your everyday conduct matters, but there are also events that set a sign. So, work on your everyday conduct, but that's sort of training for these opportunities. When are you the presenter? Whether it's in a big meeting or at an all hands, when are you the presenter? I learned to love public speaking. That's something I was kind of gifted with, honestly. Even though I'm normally more introverted, I love the stage. You may not love the stage, but this is one of the places where you have to get ready and be strong. The second place is crises. So, big outages in my life. Or you've heard the story I told yesterday. I told the story of when things went badly with Jeff Bezos. How did I handle the crisis? Well, that led to how I was viewed. Another place is when you get hit with an unexpected question. So, though hostile questions are rare in business, sometimes you will get them. And sometimes you will just get surprises. How you handle those. Are you both calm, but yet decisive? That's what quick on your feet means in part. As opposed to looking shocked and puzzled and paralyzed. Executive presence. And then finally, reorgs, and I could add layoffs to this, are a huge moment for executive presence. Can you pivot your team and with conviction say, I know a third of the chairs in our team are empty as of this morning, but here's what we're going to do. Can you give that vision? Because the remaining people are looking to you for signals of is the ship going to sink or are we safe in the lifeboat that's left? They're looking to you. The key here is there are skills you can practice and situations you need to be ready to step up. It wouldn't be right to talk about executive presence and not acknowledge how culture impacts it. So, I am the classic high executive presence leader because I'm a tall white guy in a blue shirt. I'm fitting the part by appearance. I'm fitting the part in America anyway by race and gender. The leader does tend to form the reference. So, whatever company you're at, what that company values makes a difference. We'll also talk executive presence favors deeper voices. So much so that Margaret Thatcher, who is ultimately the Prime Minister of the United Kingdom, worked throughout her career, went to a voice coach to learn how to speak in a deeper voice. Because early in her career, she was accused of screeching and she didn't want that image. And so, she changed her voice. Now, should she have to do that? Probably not. But, it matters. I know many of you are not native speakers of English. You can have an accent. You can't have such a thick accent. People can't follow you. So, if you have that, you may need a coach who can help you reduce your accent. That's rare. In tech, plenty of people learn to listen to people from other cultures without a problem. So, I'm not saying this is a common problem. But, if you happen to really struggle with an accent, you may need help here. If people commonly are saying, pardon, I didn't catch that, it's a clue. There are some ways to structure a culture to more favor introverts. An example here is, if your company uses documents or even presentations, you have everyone write out their comments and review them later, as opposed to doing it live and interactive. That favors the people, or at least evens the playing field, for people who need a little processing time. The last thing I'm going to say, and this is me giving very real advice, there is a trade-off between all the things I've told you about biased culture, where you can correctly say, it shouldn't be that way, I want to resist. And adapting so that you can succeed in it right now. Because it's going to take a long time to change culture, and your career can't wait 20 years for the world to be different. So, you have to make your own choice of where am I going to stand up against bias, and where am I going to get really good at working around it. So, if your meeting culture at your company has a lot of people talking over each other, and you don't like that, and you want to sit it out and see everybody giving their turn, you may have a choice that says, well, if I stay at this company, I may need to learn to talk over other people too. So, let's talk a little bit more about introverts just quickly. In an ideal world, you would be judged on your skills, not on your presentation, not on your appearance. But, classic extrovert traits are often associated with executive presence. Quick decision making, firm speaking, being comfortable in front of crowds, etc. You can think of this in part as equivalent to stage presence. What do actors do on a stage? They, or rock stars, if you prefer, true rock stars, not coding rock stars. They get up and they have a persona on stage that they can step into and project. Literally, when you're an actor, you're trained to project your voice. Introverts may need to develop some of these skills, not all the time, but for those contexts. That said, I want to remind you, speaking is only one part of executive presence. It's what everyone thinks of. Gravitas, how good your information is, how serious you are, how accurate you are, is the dominant piece. Speaking just helps you get that across. So, if that's really hard for you, the public part, work on being really good at the other parts that are natural to you. A friend and fellow coach of mine created this little matrix. You have this slide, so I won't read it all to you. You can look at it later. What it shows you, though, is that your personal power doesn't have to come from a river of words, a really good executive summary, a tweet, if you will, a punchy saying, like, my results are the currency of creativity. Conversely, you can be in a role where you talk, talk, talk, and you're still in a servant role, a low personal power role, and that's, say, being the process facilitator. So, the books. I want to talk about these two books for a second. I've mentioned this author, Hewlett, and I've mentioned this author, and I've mentioned this author, and I've mentioned this author, and I've mentioned this author, and I've mentioned this author, I've mentioned this author, Hewlett, Sylvia and Hewlett. Her book is more, it's very research-based. She is a researcher at this point. She's a professor, I believe. But her book is more her personal story. This book is very good for people who have two different problems. She grew up with an accent and had to get rid of it to be taken seriously. She's Welsh, and a Welsh accent in the UK was viewed as low income and low education, and it led to her having problems. Second, she's a woman. And so, if you want a woman's perspective and some of the specific things women face, the book is excellent on those two pieces. For the techies in the audience, Harrison Monarth is not a techie, but his book is more like a toolkit. It's like an API. He breaks executive presence down into many different categories. He gives specific actions for many categories and subcategories. So, if you want to say, I have this problem and I only want to read the chapter on this problem, that's the book for you. It's the reference manual approach to executive presence. Executive presence will take you a very long way. When some of you express frustration that someone who's done less but seems to be making more traction, they're getting promoted and they're not as good as I am. Why is that? It's probably they're really good at these skills, or at least that is a big piece of it. The second thing is when some people say, well, this place is political or that person's a politician, maybe politics implies some level of manipulation or dishonesty. It could be they're just really persuasive. And even if you are a politician, you have to be persuasive. So, just be aware of these things. So, let's talk about politics for just a minute. Everyone loves this topic. Politics is really easy to blame. Oh, this is political. Well, I want to talk about what you can do about politics without going super deep into it. If you feel a situation is political, I love the idea from Stephen Covey, Seven Habits of Highly Effective People, Seek first to understand, then to be understood. The point here is, sometimes what we think of politics is just we don't understand what the other person needs and wants in this situation. If, as opposed to pushing our agenda, we learn what they need, then that is the key to getting their cooperation. I was taught an acronym. It doesn't appear on this page. The acronym is WIFM, What's in it for me. If you believe you're facing a political opposition, a political person, you need to understand what can you make about the situation be something they want, what's in it for them. Three ways to deal with a political world. Number one, if you can do more within your own team, minimize your dependencies on others, it's less people you have to work with, less opportunities for politics. Now ask, how can I make my initiatives that are going to have impact, how can I make them under my own control? Second, the art of politics is trading and making deals. I will help you with this if you will help me with that. I will help your team achieve. I now have asked you what you need. I've understood you. I will help you get to your goal. You will help me get to my goal. Straight up normal process. You may not like it. You may not think you should have to, but that is how it works. Finally, get help from others. What does that mean? Politicians, if someone is truly a politician, want to be on the winning side. They so-called blow with the wind. They flip-flop. Well, they may be opposing you right until you can figure out how to show that three other people agree with you. And then they will line up with the crowd because politicians don't like to lose. Okay, so I see people are entering questions and voting on them. That's excellent. The top question is one that we have a whole section on. So it will be answered as a part of the class. But thank you for asking it. So, by the way, if you want to influence people and you have not read this classic or listened to it, How to Win Friends and Influence People, this book is now 87 or 8 years old, written, I think, in 1937. Dale Carnegie was a gifted person in terms of understanding what makes humans tick. The one thing you have to look past in the book is due to the period, he writes about businessmen and housewives. You have to look past that. But the advice is incredibly accurate, and it's very short. I like to recommend short books because I know you're all busy. I found this book really powerful. So, how to engage executive sponsors? It was great that everyone wanted me to answer this question. Here it is. Let's jump in. We're going to talk about how do you get mentors and then how do you get sponsors, which are different. This is a Ethan's practical how-to tricks. So, first thing you need to understand is execs get lots of requests. We get lots of requests for, will you mentor me, et cetera. The way through this is in part, can you make it a two-way relationship? Can you bring them some value? Well, what do you have as value? If you're working with an exec, you may be an expert in an area they would like to know more about. Could be a technological area, could be a customer relationship area, but bring an offer, what I call your frontline insights or your expertise. The story here is I always challenged anyone who wanted me to mentor them. I said, I will mentor you. But as a part of that deal, you need to teach me something in every meeting. The challenge is we'll have a half-hour meeting, but 10 minutes of that needs to be you telling me something I don't know. Now, that was my personal rule. Not every exec's going to care that way. But remember, execs are human. They all want something. Figure out what they want and figure out what you can deliver. And by the way, we're going to talk about this a few times in the class. If you're not sure what they want, see who they're investing in and what those people are giving them. They are investing in someone. They have a relationship with someone. Figure out, by the way, you can even go ask them. You can say, hey, Ethan, I see you have a great relationship with this VP. How does that work? What do you do that they spend so much time with you? There's nothing wrong with asking that question. Most people will tell you, oh, we play golf together. Well, you may not be a golfer. That may not be your ticket, but at least you'll know. It may be something you can copy. The second part, this bigger box, make it seem easy. If you're going to ask someone, the worst request in the world for me is will you mentor me? On what? To what goal? For how long? Will you mentor me? Feels like to me, you don't mean it this way, but it feels like, will I take responsibility for your career and figure out everything you need and do all the work because you just want me, you don't want to do anything. You just are asking for magic help. The worst meetings for me are the ones where the person comes in, they sit and say, hi, I'm here. They don't say these exact words, but it's how it's conveyed. Hi, I'm here. Rain wisdom upon me. I have arrived in your office. Please drop wisdom bombs on me so I am satisfied. Putting it all on me. Why should I bother? You're going to say, well, it's your job. No, I have plenty of jobs. Raining wisdom bombs is not on my work list. So instead, make it specific to their expertise. Whatever it is they do that you value, tell them that. You seem really good at marketing and I need to learn that. I noticed how you launched this product. I noticed how you got funding for this executive, this initiative. Can you teach me that? Second, make it seem really easy. I'm not asking you to mentor me for life. Can you have a couple of 30 minute meetings with me where you teach me how you get proposals approved, how you've gotten so much headcount, how you work so well with external customers, fill in the blank with what it is you want to learn. The trick here is once you've had those couple 30 minute meetings, then you have a relationship and you can say, you know, I've learned a lot in this. Could you also teach me this? Could you also teach me that? And then at the end of six 30 minute meetings, you say, you know, you've been very generous with your time. I see this as a mentor relationship. I hope you've been getting value also. Would you consider generalizing our relationship to one 30 minute meeting a month? And at that point, they know you and they've seen you take the advice and put it into action and listen. They're much more likely to say yes than if you send an executive cold email. So this is a little bit. If you like the analogy, they're the frog in the pot. You got to boil it slowly. If you throw them in the hot water of will you be my mentor? I get that request every day, quite literally, by the way. I have a form email. I just paste to people who send me that now. Now I'm not I didn't have to do that at Amazon, but now that I just have a form email, I get a will you mentor me every day? And I have a form that says, sorry, no time. This is the reality of many execs also. Another thing people do, by the way, they all want Jeff Bezos to mentor them. Shoot for someone that can educate you but may not be getting a ton of requests. All right. So some more tips on this. Engaging executive sponsors is a special case of networking. So we're going to talk more about networking and I have a whole class on networking. But the bigger your network, the more execs are in it, the more people who can introduce you to net executives, the more your name is out there, the more you're known. Remember, executives are running a lens, which is should I invest in this person because they're a future leader on my team? You want your name to come up. The second thing is it's relationship based. Who am I going to invest in? So you want to leverage any plausible connection. Do they like the same sport? Did they go to the same school? Are they from the same background? What are the things you can do to establish a connection? For example, yesterday a woman wanted some help from me and I noticed that we actually began our careers at the same small company. She didn't notice I was digging through her background, deciding if I was going to invest or not. I thought, OK, this is someone I have common background with. I will choose to invest a little. That was my choice, but it's because we had a commonality. Have your manager introduce or ask on your behalf. We'll talk in a few minutes. I had an SVP as a mentor for a while because my manager, my VP, emailed them and said, quite literally, I am preparing Ethan for promotion to vice president. He would benefit from your input. Would you spend some time with him? If you have a good relationship with your manager, they can introduce because they have those relationships. What does your special programs mean? It means many companies have programs for underrepresented groups. They have a program to mentor those from underrepresented populace, particularly women, particularly certain minorities. If you fit that, use them. That resource is there for you. Sponsorship is the next level. Most of you probably know the difference between mentorship and sponsorship. I talked about it yesterday. A mentor is agreeing to educate you on something, to give you advice. A sponsor is helping you advance your career. You can ask for mentorship. You normally need to earn sponsorship. Also ask for it. But you have to earn enough trust that I am willing to put you out there to my network and say, Jason is a star. He's worked with me as my operating partner. He has this skill, this skill and this skill. Would you give him this opportunity? I think you'll be stunned by how he'll deliver. You earn sponsorship. You also ask for it. You say, hey, I need this from you. I need your help getting here. Would you do this? The last point that's a little frustrating, but I want you all to hear it clearly, it's a cycle. The better your mentors are, the more people they can connect you to. So be willing to work your way up the pyramid. Get a couple low-level mentors. Ask them who else they can introduce you to. Level up. You can't always go straight to the top person you want. You go instead to the middle person, build a relationship. Remember, your career is going to be 30 years long. If it takes you six months with low-level mentors to get to high-level mentors, and then six more months with them or a year to get to truly executive mentors, start playing a 30-year game, not a one-year game. Play both. This is the whole Bezos thing about being tactically impatient, but strategically patient. Okay. So story time, bonus stories. So many stories, it's a whole slide. First, as I mentioned, I got an SVP mentor when I was still a director. It's what all of you want, right? The super high-level mentor. Because my manager, who was acting as a sponsor, suggested it and backchanneled to that person and asked them to mentor me, set it up for me. That was incredibly valuable. Why? Because when it came time for my promotion, that mentor was one of the people in the room and wasn't in my reporting chain. The canonical independent witness. So this is the perfect scenario. My boss was very good at working the process. We're going to talk about that as an asset towards the end of the class today. Can you get the same thing? How do you get it? Well, we're going to talk about something called the magic loop later, but you've got to build a relationship with your manager so your manager is willing to expend their credibility to try and get you this sort of mentor or sponsor. Now, honestly, did my SVP mentor tell me anything super valuable to my career? Not that much. They were fun conversations. I learned a few things about politics, I would say. And I'm not saying I learned nothing, but the value is really I got to build a relationship with someone in the promo room. And that's what you're after in part. It's also good to learn. OK, second thing I just talked about managers as sponsors. If you want to climb a classic corporate ladder, you need to get your manager on your side to where they're advocating for you. We will talk about I have a how to to work around bad managers. For those of you saying I can't do that, my manager is a jerk. I have a whole section on that. But understand that is a crippling handicap that we're going to try and build you crutches for. It's the gold standard is you want to partner with your manager so that they're helping you. And you earn that by being an asset to them and building a personal relationship. And by the way, yes, some people will say, wow, you must be some kind of brown noser. I just published you can go read it on LinkedIn. I just published a story where I partnered with my first manager in my first job. She happened to be a woman. She promoted my career so much that at the end of my run there, the rumor circulated we must have been having an affair because our relationship was so effective and she worked hard on my behalf that critics couldn't figure out any explanation for us working well together. Then we must be sleeping together on the slide. Completely not true, completely disgusting and inappropriate. But while you don't want to end up triggering that rumor, you want that kind of sponsorship and you can get it. Now, let me tell you how not to get it is a story you'll remember. I had a gentleman, a senior manager like many of you and L7. If you're an Amazon context or you can use levels.FYI to figure out the level anywhere else. Come to me and ask if I would mentor him. I said, OK, sure. This was early. I didn't know what questions to ask. I was a new director. He came to my office one time, asked me a bunch of questions and then ghosted me. Ghosted me so bad that I would email him, say like, hey, do you want to talk again? Is this an ongoing thing? Didn't even bother to reply. Didn't even say, no, I got what I want. Thanks. Just ghosted me. The irony is five years later, by the way, all of his questions have been, I want to get to L8 right away. I want to get the director right away. How do I get there? Five years later, turns out he wanted to join my team. He was still in L7, hadn't gotten anywhere. He was still in L7, wanted to join my team. You can imagine that was a very interesting discussion. One of my leaders really wanted to take him on. I warned my leader about him. I decided though, I decided I would let my leader do that. My very good leader took him on, worked with him very brilliantly. We got him to his L8 that he had never gotten to. Why? We knew how he operated. He's coin operated. Coin operated means put the payment in the slot, get the result. This gentleman's coin operated. If you're giving him something, he will bust his butt to get it. Now, interestingly, I tell this story, he still doesn't respond to my emails now. I email him and he's doing his new job. I'm no longer of value to him. I get jack shit. I understand who this person is. They're coin operated. It's not a flattering trait. The point is, don't be that. I'm unlikely to ever help him again. He's so transactional. Why did I do it in the past? Well, my guy wanted to do it and I give my people the room to hang themselves. And while we were delivering value, this guy busted his butt. So coin operated people can be used. You can arrange a deal with them. You just have to understand the limits of the deal, which is the day you're no longer of value, the relationship is over. I don't consider that an ideal relationship, but you can work. This is important. You don't have to love everyone that you learn to work with. Point operated people are one type of relationship that if you understand the bounds, you can make work in a certain context. So this is an early break. We've only been going 45 minutes. It's going to be a long time to the next section, though. I covered those two big deep areas. Let's restart at 950. We'll make it four minutes. I'll be right back. Next section is going to be a little longer. So if you think you need a rest break, get it now. All right. So this is part two of the class. We've transitioned from what are all the things you need to do to be ready to be an executive? What are the changes you need to make? And how do you know if you've made them? To how do you actually manage your promotion? How do you work the process? This is intended to be a combination of what are the steps and if you find yourself in a difficult spot, what are the tricky ways or tips to get it to happen? So. We're going to cover this in two sections. The first part is prerequisites. What are all the things you do up front? To get ready to align to the process. And then the last part is quite short. It's some specific process steps you can take. How do you create the document? How do you engineer who's in the room for the review? What's the final approval process at a big company, et cetera? But that's very short. We're going to spend most of the time on prerequisites. And in that, what's the final process? We're going to talk about two how-to's that you're very interested in. How to get scope and how to work around poor managers as best you can. And I say as best you can. That's a tough problem. Right? How do you get promoted if your manager's not really into it is a nearly insoluble problem. But we will do our best to equip you. And we'll talk about when you should bite the bullet and escape. Okay. So. First thing is you better know how your company goes about choosing executives. Because it's different everywhere. Is there a required scope? More companies, including Amazon, which some of you are from, but more companies right now are putting numbers on. You can't be a director unless you have X reports. You can't be this unless you have Y. You have to have these constraints. But you can't be a director unless you have X reports. Unless you have Y. You have to have these constraints. If those are there, you need to know what they are. Second. Many places have an implied time. It may not be stated, but they're like, hey, we want to see three, four, five years of seasoning on you. Now some people scream injustice. I felt this way. We all feel this way. Why is it a matter of how long? Isn't it if I'm good enough? Speaking from the executive perspective, there is an element of time and it's very simple. Remember, trust is built over time. You may have killed it on this last project, but were you lucky or were you good? There sometimes people have a great success because the world lined up for them, but they're not actually that good at making success happen. Conversely, sometimes there are people that never have a huge success, but they make hard things happen over and over again. And so speaking from the other side of the equation, seeing some consistency matters. Consistency. How does promotion work? What's the calendar? How much lead time? Most of these promotions need to be prepped six months to a year in advance. So if you're hoping at this point, if you haven't been promoted, the soonest it probably can happen unless the document is done, blah, blah, blah, is fall of this year. And might be Christmas, might be next year. You need to start the process and be working on it. Why? That's the way it is in big companies. They're bureaucratic. They're slow. They're trying to avoid mistakes. We're going to talk about why does all this process exist? A, they're trying to avoid mistakes. B, they're trying to avoid bias. I'm not saying they're successful. That's what they're trying to do. What's the lead time? People from Amazon are familiar with. There's this idea of best reasons not to promote is a special question you have to answer at Amazon. At Google, I coach some people at Google. There's requirements at Google that you have, say, a VP from outside your org has to write feedback. That's a special Google requirement. Every company has these weird pieces. You better know what they are. Now, the story is here. When I wanted to be a director, I was new to Amazon. I didn't know any of these things. I just more or less went into my manager's office and very politely explained to him that I wanted to see action on my promotion. Or I was going to consider my other options. The exact words I said to him, I constructed them very carefully, were my career is very important to me. I need to know if my career is also important to Amazon because if it's not, I have to take that into consideration. Now, that's still a threat. It's just worded really nicely. But he was willing to work on my promotion for a variety of reasons. He knew this process. I didn't. I was blind. So candidly, I got lucky. I managed to engage someone who knew how to get it done. If he'd been a rookie, this might not have worked. So don't do what I did. This is a story of me getting lucky. Do not rely on luck. How is this judged? These are some of the questions that get asked. There are three parts to a promotion normally at this level. At some companies, they're explicit. At some, they're not. The one we all worry about is can we do the job? Are we qualified? That was the first half of this class. How to be the person who can pass the question, can we do this job? The second question that you hear about a lot because it feels numeric and it feels like a barrier is, is the scope there? Is the work big enough? The third one, which is the most subtle, is do we need a leader at this level? Is the challenge hard enough? Is the business important enough to the company to pay the salary and have the big leader? Maybe not. Maybe. I remember I have one peer. He became a VP at Amazon eventually and has retired. But when he was trying to go from senior manager to director, like many of you, he was told, you know, you're qualified. You're good enough. You're talented enough. But we don't need a director in this role. We have to move you somewhere where we need one and then you can get promoted. Well, that's a hard message to swallow. But he moved somewhere else and was promoted almost immediately because they had already acknowledged that he was good enough. The key point is this is different than lower levels. You can always promote someone from engineer to senior engineer, from product manager to senior product manager. You can't always promote a new director. And in fact, right now, the bar for that has gone up a lot. We'll talk about that some more later in the class. But I've heard from many leaders that they're being more picky because companies are downsizing and they want to control experience. This is getting harder right now. Now, before you all panic, that will turn around and we will talk about hard times and how to get through them. So how is executive need determined? I've given you two sets of three words, but is this a hard enough challenge? Is some combination of ambiguity, complexity and impact? OK, how tricky is this space? How complicated is it? How complicated is it? And will the person in this role move the needle on how much money we make? You can paraphrase these if you like the words better. How uncertain is the space? How hard, how valuable? So, for example, Amazon has both warehouses and customer service centers. In those centers, to be even a senior manager, you may manage hundreds and hundreds of people because it's seen as the work is not very differentiated. It's just more people doing the same thing. There's no complexity. It's just get 100 people on the phones today, get 100 people on the phones tomorrow. Not complicated is the thinking. Also, frankly, not that valuable. Get 500 people to pack boxes has to happen. Not as valuable as figure out our gen AI strategy. So one metric I was given by a colleague, David Glick, who's former Amazon, now an SVP at Walmart. You'll see him quoted elsewhere in this deck. Solve a 10x problem. If you want to move to the next level, what problem is there that can be 10x 10 times as many customers, 10 times as much money, 10 times as many transactions, 10 times as many sales? If you 10x something, you usually move to the next level. Let's talk about scope. What everyone wants to know in big tech. To get to senior manager, I wrote these numbers a year ago. They've gone up again. It's at least 25 people to become a senior manager, probably 35. To become a director, I'm now hearing numbers more like 100 across businesses. This varies. And I saw some people talking about this in chat yesterday. This varies by what role you're in. Product managers, sales, etc. have different numbers. At least go learn your numbers. How do I learn the numbers? Look at who got promoted last time. How many people did they have? Talk to them. Now, these metrics stink. Better numbers shouldn't be the key factor. It should be the impact of the role, the complexity and the autonomy, how cross-functional the work is or how complicated, how international. And do you own the P&L is a big one in many cases. What's the P&L? It's the profit and loss statement. It means specifically, are you on the hook for whether or not your effort makes money? This is the difference between, say, someone who has a vice president title or director title and someone who has a GM title, someone who has a head title and someone who has a general manager title. If you own, if it is considered because money is the fundamental unit of corporate success, whether or not you own the P&L is viewed as how close are you to the corporate success? Are you directly contributing? Also, money is easily measured. So if you own a P&L, it's easy to show success because there's a numeric answer. Anyway, to learn this, you observe others. You see what other people are getting promoted. How do you get scope? We're going to have a whole thing on scope. But very quickly, high growth is a ticket to the scope. The ways to move up, right, typically are your manager leaves or is promoted. So there's a hole. You can take their hole. Or someone departs and their team is redistributed. Or growth creates new roles. These are holes being made that aren't your manager leaving. The best way to move up is your own job grows to be so big that it's next level. Why is that the best way? It doesn't rely on your manager leaving. And if your manager leaves, there's six or eight or ten people who might want that role. Separately, it doesn't rely on you being chosen for some other role. It's very rare, though it does happen, if your job grows. You are the first candidate anybody considers. Now what happens if you're not considered to be good enough? They hire in over you. So your manager comes in and says, you know, this has become a very important area. I want to let you know we're hiring a new director. You're no longer going to report to me. You're going to report to them. That's a sign normally that your job has grown or the director's job has grown. But you're not considered able to step up. Most leaders think about can they promote internally first? Why do they think about this? No search to do. No person to be disappointed. No time to wait. But you have to be obviously ready and have that relationship. The bottom line here is growth creates scope. Unfortunately, this is a low growth environment. Twenty twenty three was low growth. Twenty twenty four was low growth. The question is, can you find high growth either inside your company or outside? And the second question is, what do you do if you can't? We will address that. So low growth environments. The current market, broadly speaking, is low growth. The key to understand is just because not all companies are growing or most companies are not growing. Some companies are growing. There are winners in every environment. People always want to know, well, who's growing? I don't have an itemized list of who's growing. But for example, at least last fall, Capital One was hiring like crazy. Several of my friends went there to new executive roles. They hired a bunch of people with them. I think Capital One is now sort of filled. But at that time, they were hiring like nuts to start a new initiative. You can find high growth even in low growth times internally or externally. Within the big tech companies, some groups are shrinking, others are expanding, right? The AI initiatives, for example, I know AI is hot and you may not want to go there or it may already be filled. But teams shifted a lot of effort to AI and the growth I've seen, some leaders have gotten growth because they're able to speak to an AI strategy. The biggest way I've seen growth is this third bucket. Frankly, someone gets laid off and as opposed to backfilling that laid off person, they divide up what remains of their team between the other leaders. Leaders like me know that leaders like you are frustrated and want growth. So when someone leaves, is fired, is laid off or just quits, the first question we ask ourselves is, can I just divide up their team and hand it out as prizes? Why? Because I have pressure not to hire another expensive person right now. I have pressure to grow my internal people and retain them. So I have motive to do this. The trick for you is, are you the person I'm going to hand pieces to? Have you done all the stuff in the first half of the class? Have you built the relationship so that when I'm handing out pieces, you get a big piece? I coach a leader. There was a layoff in her org, her greater org. They divided up the spoils and she got a bunch of it. This is the way to get growth right now. At least it's a main way. It's not the best way. Like you'd rather not grow by collecting people by other people's misfortune. But I'm here to talk to you about realism. The fastest way to grow right now is someone else gets axed and you get their team. That's the fastest way right now that I see. This last bullet is really important. So you may not get growth right now. You may need to be patient. I was talking to a leader yesterday who lived through the economic downturns around 2000, around the 9-11 attacks and the economy going down then, and then again around 2008. Both of those periods felt bad and they were low growth and it was hard to get promoted. It was hard to even keep your job. But they weren't that long. A career is 30 years. Right now you may not get the growth you want. What you can be doing instead is systematically using that time to be ready to accelerate out of the pause. I know all of you want the secret where it's March you can get promoted in April. The option you may have is use this time to develop all the skills we talked about in the first half. The executive presence, the impact, the risk taking, the relationships. So that when growth reopens, you can either easily move somewhere else because you've built a big network and take advantage of that growth or you're the natural person who moves up and is given the new opportunity. My point is downturns don't last very long normally. The Great Depression was 85 years ago. It's possible we'll have another bad time like that. But generally tech has been hot and many of you come from tech. Is there any reason really to believe that the world has permanently changed? It might have. We might be blind. But I don't think so. We have a global economy that broadly speaking has a lot of potential. Growth is going to resume. If you can't get promoted today, how are you building your skills so you're the obvious choice? That's why I said this is very important. Everyone wants immediate results. This is the building muscle so you're strong for later. With that lecture, let me tell you the best ways you can get scope if you can. First, let's talk about why scope matters. Well, on the one hand, there are some real reasons scope has some impact. It is a proxy for complexity. More people on your team means more problems, more people to manage, more difficulty, more areas of responsibility. Some issues or challenges with your leadership only show up at scale. So having people manage a lot of people is something of an indicator of leadership ability. Can you communicate at scale? Can you communicate and can you inspire people that you don't know very well because there's too many of them? There are also some very bad reasons for scope. The one that I hate the worst is it's just really easy to count. It's really easy to say this person is 80 and that person has 100. This person is 25. That person has 125. It also leads to bad behaviors. It creates empire building where if the only way I can go up is have more people, quite naturally you're all high performers. You focus on how do I get more people. Unfortunately, I'm just giving you philosophy. Let's move on. Scope outside of people is very subjective and fuzzy. What constitutes scope? Let me tell you this quick story of a promotion I was part of considering. There was a person up as an individual contributor. We should talk about scope for ICs here for a minute because I know some ICs are listening and wondering when are you going to talk to me? OK. This person was an IC. They were up for promotion from the equivalent of senior manager to the equivalent of director. And their job, they worked in Amazon Web Services and their single job was to negotiate the deal for CPI. Each year, who is AWS going to buy its CPUs from to power all the cloud for that year? And one critic said, Look, this person only does one thing. They only they only issue one PO a year. How can this be a big role? And the counter argument to that was, well, that one thing is a billion dollar decision. And now, since AWS is much bigger and this is something that happened a long time ago, that same decision would be a 10 or 15 billion dollar decision. What constitutes scope? Well, you have to understand how you have to do the work by watching others and by asking questions. Who's getting promoted and why? What does your company consider sufficient scope? Is it just people? Is it complexity? Is it money? If you don't know the answer to that, you can't engineer and design for it. You can't go get what you need. So I believe, by the way, for ICs, individual contributors, scope is usually complexity because it can't be headcount. So this whole scope discussion that often turns on headcount, I'm speaking to the personnel leaders. If you're an individual contributor, it's usually how hard are the problems and is it believed that those problems are so hard that they represent next level achievement? Are you solving problems for the company that no one else can solve at your level? Then you're not that level anymore. So I've already said this. How do you understand scope? It's the same tools I taught you in the where you stand section, which you have the slides you can refer back to. You ask your manager what's required. You ask your skip. You look at your peers. You observe who's getting moved up and who's not. And this is also where you figure out, can you substitute anything else for numbers? Can it be the complexity of your work? Can it be the ownership of a P&L? Can it be the scale, not the scale of your team, but the scale of your services? I'm serving a billion people. I'm serving, you know, I'm running a trillion dollars through this system. By the way, I knew a guy who actually did that. He ran the he built the servers for the IRS, which really is a trillion dollar business. OK, so here are some ways to get scope. Of course, growth. Growth is hard to get in 2024, but it's not impossible. I know people who've had new headcount given to them because they're part of an area where they can show value that the head. How do you get headcount? You show that your headcount is going to turn into more money than it costs. That's the simple equation. If I have these people, I can do this thing that will generate way more money than they cost. And you make a good case for it. We talked about reorgs and layoffs. How do you get the results in a reorg or a layoff? You have to have the trust of your manager and or skip level so that when they divide things up, they're looking towards you. Now, what are some ways to create scope? Well, you can take on unstaffed work. You can broaden your remit by taking into your area things that aren't getting done. There's a trade off here. You will have more work. You will work longer and harder. You may work your team longer and harder. The idea is, though, that the more you own and the more you do, the more likely you are to be given more resources. But you're taking on the work before you have the people. This is a risky game, but it is a very ambitious game. So it's a tool. You can start a whole new project. Sometimes you can't get anything added, but the company is still willing to start new things if they're good ideas. This goes back to my point yesterday about can you invent? Are you using that WAC pack and coming up with an idea that you can say we should do this? We should print t-shirts, right? There is a t-shirt business to be built. We should start a gaming pillar of prime. And here's how to do it. Tons of possibilities. New things get invented all the time. So we've talked about trust before. Many times. How do you build the trust with your manager? Say what you're going to do, then do what you say. Why is this in this section about scope? You can't get more scope if you don't have the trust that you can handle it. And I know I've banged on this throughout the course. If your manager doesn't trust you, if you haven't built that, if your skip doesn't trust you, you have a huge problem. The only way they're going to literally the only way you're going to get more scope is oh my God, we don't really think that much of Ethan. But there's nobody else. So you can either be trusted or you can be the least bad alternative. It's not a very flattering position. How do you build trust? Here's your actionable next step. I always promise you actions. If you haven't read what I've written called the magic loop, it's in my newsletter. It's in Lenny's newsletter. It's in my class called the growth and promotion recipe. The magic loop simply says if you want to build a relationship with your manager, do your current job well. This is the where do you stand? How well are you doing? Fix your problems. Then go ask your manager how you can help. Then do what they ask. Once you've done that, you have a talk with them. You may have to do that a few times. You have a talk with them and say, look, I want to advance my career. Is there something I can do for you that is also in line with my career goals, which could be promotion, could be skill growth, could be changing areas of expertise? But you say, is there anything I can do for you that helps our team but will also help me? And because you've been helping them, most good managers will help you back. Finally, do as they suggest. Then, as you can see in these other diagrams, there are advanced levels of this. You can go from asking to saying, hey, I noticed we have an opportunity to do this thing. Could I help our team by starting this new initiative, by building this tool? Finally, you get to a level where you're aligned with them. You know how they think. You know what they're going to want. You just do it and tell them it's handled. Good leaders love this. It's magical. When you get to the point where your direct report is coming to you and saying, I saw this needed to be done, so I took care of it, and you agree with them that they saw a real need and they handled it, you love that. You're so happy to have that person. Who are you going to invest in? Who are you going to promote? The other thing I want to point out, I said this yesterday. It's worth saying to all of you again today. The best way to look really good at your company is to have a kick-ass team. This loop, you can start it with your team members. We talked about how very few people come and volunteer to help. Very few of you experience people walking into your offices and offering you assistance. But can you train that into your top performers? Can you send them to this class? Can you share with them the newsletter and say, look, you help me, I'll help you. You step up, I will invest in you. I'm willing to make this deal with you. Read this blog. I'm willing to do my half of this. Are you willing to work harder to do your half? Some will, some won't. You may have some quiet quitters. They're like, nope, 40 hours is my thing. Or even not 40 hours. I'm good where I am. Or I'm working so hard I can't do anything else. Fine. You don't need your whole team to do this. You need some of your team to do it. And then peer pressure and the environment will create the rest of it. By the way, this doesn't have to mean long-term simply working harder. There is a working smarter piece to this. Getting rid of the bad work, doing the high leverage work. Figure out what you can drop. Figure out where you can automate. When you have too much work, your choices are stop the work, automate the work, or delegate the work. Got to find one of those. Because there will always be more than you can do. So remember, the goal is not to do all the work. It's to do the right work. I talked yesterday and it got posted in chat, the blog link, Selective Negligence. It's not about doing all the work. It's not even, by the way, I know this will seem hard for some of you. It's not even about doing all the work that I, as your executive, tell you to do. It's about doing the work that in the end I'll end up valuing. How do you figure that out? That's tricky. I will give you that. It's a guessing game. It's taking risk. But it's not about doing everything. That is not the solution. So let's talk about some quick stories here. Klingon promotion. My first promotion came exactly as I've discussed here when the person above me was moved aside. I was first given team leadership when the leader above me was judged as being too nice and not pushy enough. Well, you can imagine he was a very nice man. You can imagine I didn't have that problem, particularly 20 years ago with no polish. So I call it a Klingon promotion because if you know Star Trek, the way the Klingons got promoted was they killed the captain of the ship and took over. They got there by mutiny. I didn't kill this guy, even metaphysically. He got moved. But I moved into the spot of a dead man. And that is one way up. You don't have to kill anybody to do this. Second way, I've already told you the story of merch on demand, of building the t-shirt business. But the key I want to share here is I would say routinely is too strong. But many times at Amazon, and I've told you a bunch of the stories, I moved up by starting new businesses or expanding my business with a couple of months. I started building my business with a good idea. I told you the TiVo story and how that led to my director promotion. I fought to do the partnership with TiVo. I had to fight to fund a t-shirt business when my job was to run an app store. I created, along with a couple other people, Prime Gaming. Right? Prime, Amazon Prime has a video offer, Prime Video. You've all used it. Many of you have used Prime Music. You have Alexa's. You've listened to it. But there was no video game offer. We expanded and created that business. That was me growing my scope. The last way is take on the jobs nobody else wants. I haven't told this story yet. But when I was a director under that boss who eventually got me the SVP mentor, I was his only technical leader at the director level. He was an aeronautical engineer, a mechanical engineer. He didn't really understand software technology that well and candidly didn't really want to. So he would routinely come to me and say, Ethan, I have this group. It's an engineering group. Can you take it on? I ended up with a crazy hodgepodge group because I just kept saying yes. What did I own? Just to give you a quick idea, I owned our video game delivery platform. So downloading video games. I owned downloading software from Amazon. So like selling copies of Adobe Illustrator. I also owned the software component of our trade in program. So you have a DVD or a console that you want to trade in. We ran a trade in program. I owned the software for that. Reverse logistics. I owned Amazon's B2B platform, which at that time was super small. So how do we compete with Office Depot to ship you a pallet of paper or a thousand pencils, which is not what Amazon was set up to do. I owned part of our wireless effort. How do we sell cell phones? It was a complete. Broad mass of unrelated pieces. It was not the most rewarding job, but because I kept taking on the jobs he didn't want, I ended up with 200 people, which started the discussion. Where's my VP track? Because my scope was so big. Eventually, I had to focus and shed some of those teams. But the point here is taking the things nobody else wants. The dirty work is a great way to move up. It may not be the most exciting. It is effective. I want to talk just a second about leading in hard times about scope again. You only have the people you have. If you want to look good and get promoted. What can you do right now with the people you have? Well, first is you better motivate and retain them because some companies aren't allowing you to backfill or aren't allowing you to backfill at the same level. So better keep the team you have. Second, how can you control costs? That's a big issue right now. We don't want to spend a lot of money at many of the companies. What can you do to reduce the cost? Because if you can't work on growth, work on costs. They both lead to the bottom line. Of course, I've said already, results of your currency of credibility should be asking yourself every day, how can I deliver more with what I have? What does that mean? It doesn't mean drive your people. Doesn't mean be a slave driver. It means figure out leverage, figure out automation, figure out what work we can eliminate or do less of so that we can do more of what matters. A lot of you are doing work. Why are you doing it? Because someone thought it was important three years ago. What can you stop? I've talked a lot about inventing. I haven't talked about spending an hour just thinking about what can you get rid of in your team. That go talk to your team members about where are they wasting time? Where are they? Where is their time being wasted in their opinion? Super valuable. People want to know, I can't get the scope. Should I change teams or companies? Well, there is no one answer to this. The situation depends. On the one hand, changing places resets your trust. When you go to a new company, it may have more potential for the long term, but whatever title they hire you at, you're likely to stay at that title for at least two years. So if you can find a job that has a bigger title or a lot more pay or faster growth, by all means, do it. I have a good friend who left Amazon to go work. He went somewhere else first, but he left that job to go work at Sears. Now, if you're in America or know anything about America, Sears a hundred years ago was a great company. Today, it's a bankrupt company and he joined it when it was in the process of going down the drain. It was not subtle that it was going down the drain. It was circling the drain. Their crazy leader, their CEO, thought the way we will avoid failing is we're going to get us some of that Amazon talent. So they were specifically seeking people from Amazon that they hoped would turn Sears into an e-commerce play. They were offering because everyone could see Sears was a crappy company. They were offering a ton of money and fat titles. So this person who was, by the way, an L6, so a level below senior manager, got a VP title out of Sears to go work there. And it guaranteed at that time, this number will not sound as big now. He got a guaranteed million plus dollars salary for three years. So I figure today's offer, he was being offered between two and three million to go to Sears because they knew no one wants to come to Sears. So we better give them a lot of money and a big title. Ah, but here's the trick. Not the company still failed, but he cashed the checks and then he used the VP title to get a VP role at a much better company. So. Sure, if you can do that, do it. He spent two years, maybe three years of his life working at a place where he learned some things, but it wasn't the greatest job. On the other hand, it totally changed his career. Now, if you can't do that and you have a manager who's supporting him, just sit tight because the economy will turn around. If you can't get a bunch of improvement, I wouldn't move. If you can, sure, absolutely move. And that's why I say it depends. Some people say, by the way, well, there are no better jobs out there. Definitely. I have clients who have found good jobs, very good jobs, and they've had multiple offers. I have other clients who can't find a job to save their souls, but don't believe that the jobs are completely unavailable. All my friends, several of them who went to Capital One got fat raises and bigger titles. One example. It's not the only example. All right. So we're done with talking about scope. We're going to talk about peers and sponsors. What is this? Remember, the way promotions get done is not just your manager at most companies. It's not just the CEO. If you're at a small company, this can be different. But if you're at a larger company, they have a process and they try and gather a lot of feedback, which means you better be thinking about and talking to who are the people who are going to write that peer feedback and are they positive? Do I have a good relationship with them? I spent six months coaching a woman trying to get to director. By the way, she was promoted. She had one peer who loathed her. She had some others who were mixed. We had to manage through the fact that there was a peer who was absolutely going to write feedback. And what were we going to do to try and get around the fact that she was disliked by that peer for reasons, by the way? It doesn't matter. I don't have time to go into all the reasons. Line up your peers. Try to figure out also who's going to be in the room making the decisions, because the best way to make sure your promotion goes through and now we're down in tactics is have one or two people in that room besides your boss or your skip who are going to speak up for you. What does that mean? Well, it means you better be building relationships with them now. This is the networking piece. How do you get your skips peers? Because that's usually who's in the room. If you're level X, it's not just your boss and their peers. It's your skips peers that are in that room giving input on whether your promotion should go forward or not. Can you find someone at that level who will advocate for you or at least say, yeah, I know Ethan, he's pretty good. Even that could be transformative. And I'm going to tell a story about this in a few minutes. Remember, you want sponsors. You make a specific ask of them. You build the trust, you build value, and then you ask, will you help me? Will you speak up for me? Here's an interesting story. I told you I was asked to be a mentor all the time. I don't think anybody ever came and asked me, said, hey, I think you're going to be part of my promotion decision in six months. Where do you stand on that? Is there is there anything you need to see from me? I don't think very many people played the chess game that deeply. Look, executives know you want to move up. Why do they know? Because they did. Nobody gets to VP without going through the steps you went through. Try to remember that. They didn't. They got where they are by doing what you're doing now. So they know how the game works. So if you talk to them politely in terms of those steps, it's they're not surprised. They understand you want to move up. They actually, if they're any good, this is something I was told my team, I want to promote you. You have to enable me with the evidence and the performance. Why do I want to promote you? It's only good for me. The stronger my team, the more senior my team, a, the better I'm seeing B, the less my work. So I want to promote you. It's not people sometimes think, and it is true sometimes, by the way, my boss doesn't want to promote me. Well, that's not a great boss. That's not a boss. It's thinking very clearly. A good manager wants the strongest possible team and the most senior team, but you have to give them the evidence. All right. So if you have that bad boss, we're talking about that in a few minutes. Oh, we're talking about that right now. Working around poor managers. What can you do? Now, I told you honestly earlier. This is a broken leg. You're going to be trying to run on a broken leg. We're going to try and help you do that. There is no perfect solution for this other than heal the leg. OK, which can be done by changing managers or by turning around the relationship. That's because at almost every company, the manager's support drives the process. You either need their support in writing, even if it like Google, things go off to a committee. They're still going to want to know the manager's opinion and they're going to take a huge weight of it, or they actually own the process. And you can't be put up for promotion unless they do it. I put the word effective in italics, though. You'll notice I've used almost no italics or bold in this whole deck. Just because your manager says they're going to support you doesn't mean they know how to do it or they're any good at it. So we're going to talk about that, too. First thing is, if you want that support, we talked about how to know where you stand. You've got to be performing well. One of the questions I ask people is, when is the only time in life your managers, many of you, even if your ICs and your senior and people come to you asking for help, what's the one time you don't, like if someone says, hey, what can I do for you to help you out? The one time that question is unwelcome. There's only one time. It's where the answer is, well, nothing, because you're not doing your current job very well. So the only help you can give me right now is improve your performance. That's the help I need is, as I like to say, do your damn job. Once you're doing your job, then come help. I want your help, but you're not able. Make sure you're not in that case. And if you are, get out of it. By the way, I'm different names for it. I'm coaching people. I coach all kinds of people. I coach some people who are on PIPs, PIVOTs, Focus, whatever you want to call it. That stuff can be recovered. It's very hard, but it can be recovered. So how do you recover it? Got to listen and address the flaws. Is anyone succeeding under your manager? A lot of times you don't have a poor manager. You have a stylistic disconnect with them. They like to do things way A. You like to do things way B. And it's a style conflict. The easiest style conflict to cite is the level of detail orientation. Your manager is a big picture person, wants to float at the high level. You're a detail person, wants to be, wants to drag them through every possible detail and move very cautiously. They're a risk taker. You're not. Or vice versa. You're a risk taker. They're not. I struggled a lot when I was working for a manager who didn't want to take risks, and I'm a risk taker. Figure out what your manager needs. And then you're going to have to adapt to their style. Why? Because they don't have to adapt to yours. That's the simplest answer. They might. They're a good manager. I always try to adapt to my people's style. Don't be this manager for your people. Right? This is another good reflection exercise. Ask yourself, which people on my team are probably wish they had this course from Ethan right now? Because that person exists. None of us is that good. What can I do for them? But who's succeeding under you? And who is succeeding under your boss? What are they doing? The other thing you can do with a poor manager is you can ask directly for help. You can say, look, what can I do to serve better? How can I, how can we improve our relationship? How can we improve our collaboration? The last thing, which is really hard, is what can you do to shine around them? Now, we talked yesterday in the Q&A about publishing your team's accomplishments and about talking up the members of your team to a broad range of people on an email, on a Slack channel, in a newsletter, whatever. It is possible to shine around a poor manager. If your manager stinks and your skip level is good, your skip may know, by the way, that they have a poor manager. Remember, skips have a hard problem just covering this. You feel your manager is poor. Your skip level is trying to decide, sure, they're not great, but are they so bad that I'm better off firing them? Now, you wish the answer was like, well, yeah, you should be improving my manager. They're making a triage decision. Is this my hottest problem right now? Because all of us have to prioritize and they may be deciding, you know what? This person is only an average manager, but our bell curve of rating, I don't get to fire the people who are only average. That's just fact. So I need to keep those people and try to limit their damage. Well, you might be able to shine around them. If, by the way, both if you're convinced and you've done your work and you believe both your manager and your skip level are not that good. I was talking to a colleague yesterday. He may be right or wrong, but his managers told him very honestly, I'm in rest invest mode. I'm going to collect my salary and my stock for a couple more years and then I'm out of here. So I'll do what I can for you, but don't expect me to bust my behind. Told him very plainly, like if it's easy, I'll help you if it's hard. And he doesn't like his skip. I told him, look, there's only so much you're going to get out of that situation. Like you have to make a choice. Now, his manager isn't a bad person. His managers just burnt out and has decided that his best strategy in life is collect the money for a couple of years and then retire. There isn't a lot you can do in that situation because the manager isn't performing poorly enough to get fired, but also isn't that motivated to help. So he has to decide, is he willing to put in the legwork to find a new role? Which brings us to the big blue side of this slide. If you can't do any of these other things, start planning to leave. Just remember the story I told you about my person is on their third job. Don't go somewhere else and take your problems with you because you'll just end up right back where you are. But if it is a bad manager, even if it's hard to find a new job internally or externally, there is no fix for this broken leg. If you don't get it healed and that may mean leaving. So what does great support look like? What are you looking for? How can you judge how good is my manager? These are some things great managers do. They share credit. They spotlight the team. They engage in deep career planning. You can read the list. Key question for you. If I go and talk to your direct reports today or if you're in IC, the people that you're supposed to be mentoring and leading, how many, what will they say about you? Just think about it because you want to excel. You need that in your team. And these are skills you need. How do you get these things? You're going to have to work more. It's harder. You have a handicap. If you want to win the race on crutches, you're going to have to work harder and be more fit. So if your manager is poor, your job got harder. I'm sorry, but I can't change that. Have a plan to cover your manager's weaknesses and you ask them for the support you need, though. You ask your manager because your manager, see, think about each of you. If any of you honestly said, well, OK, you think you kind of got me. I'm not sure how I would score. Is that because you're an evil jerk? No, hopefully not. It's because you're busy. It's because you have a lot going on and you mean to do this, but you're not getting around to all of it because I bet if I challenge you, most of you who are leaders, when's the last time you introduced one of your people to someone to be their mentor or sponsor? You may have done some of this stuff, but when's the last time you went out of your way to help them as an example or had them stand in for you or took them with you to a meeting so they could learn what the next level looks like? Now, are you against doing that stuff? No, you're busy. So you haven't done it. But remember, your manager may be the same. If you ask for that, they may be willing to do it. They're just not thinking of it. So a lot of poor managers are just busy and maybe a little lazy. Some more on this topic. Prepare yourself. Be aware that managers often leave and then your promotions are often reset. There's some defense against this. It's listed right here under defenses. The longer the manager has been with the company, possibly the longer they'll stay. But definitely the faster they can be with promotions because they know how the system works. So all other things being equal in a big company, try to work for the veteran person, not the new person. Second, you can have a defense where if you have a good relationship with your manager, you can have a discussion with them and know they'll tell you, yeah, I'm going to be moving on. And you can at least plan for it. The only other defense is create your documents so there's documented feedback that can transition to the new person or that can be a part of the process. And there's a skip level relationship. Now, this is going to be the same in every company, every company, but I have the data from Amazon. So I'm going to share that data. Amazon knew 100% that on average, people who had a manager change during a year got a lower rating than people who had the same manager all year. Why is that? Because number one, the new manager doesn't know people as well and so is less confident and less equipped to fight for their rating. Number two, they're less motivated to. They don't have the relationship. Number three, they may be new to the org and so they have less standing, less credibility. The bottom line is it's actually there's plenty of data to confirm what you suspect, which is manager churn hurts you. Now, what can you do about it? You can try to have a good relationship with your manager and no. But the rest of it is it's just reality. Sometimes we get good luck in our careers and a position opens up and we're asked if we want to do it. And sometimes we get bad luck. Manager churn is bad luck. I think a lot of my career, being very honest, I got lucky that my managers stayed consistent during the critical window. I never lost a manager at promotion time. If that's happened to you, I'm sorry for you. You have to suck it up and move on because there isn't any other choice. What you can do is realize I had someone whose promotion got killed because a couple of their expected peer feedback providers left. They hadn't lined up spares. That is in your control. If your company process says six peers have to write feedback, have eight. If your company process says you like Google, you must have a VP from outside Google. If you have a VP from outside your org, have two because you never know when one of those people is going to turn over. And you can guarantee that with enough people required, some of them will leave. So this is something in your control. Now, if you're wondering how to do this way more deeply. I have a whole class on managing up. Again, you've already paid a bunch of money. I'm not trying to sell you extra things, which is why I've covered it here. But if you want 90 minutes just on how to work with your manager and your skip level, I built that class. It's on Kajabi, which will be listed at the end and you get a discount. Now we're going to talk about one of my favorite topics, networking. We've mentioned networking many times. We have networking sessions here to help you. But networking is not just for promotions. It's for everything. The thing about a network that I haven't said yet in this class is you can't build a network in a day. It's something you must build over time. There's a joke that Jason likes to reuse or repurpose here, which is if you've ever like, when's the best time to plant a tree? Well, 20 years ago, because now it will be grown or big or bearing fruit. But the second best time to plant a tree is today because at least it will be grown in the future. Well, same thing is true of networking. Maybe you have a big, strong network. Maybe you don't. But you have to build it before you need it. Now I talked about how to build a network. You bring value. That was the whole story about ski tickets or teaching hiring hacks. You don't build a network by saying, will you please be my friend and help me? You say through your actions, here's value I'm investing in you. Why do all of you know me? It's because I take the time to write on LinkedIn. Ninety nine percent of you in this class met me through LinkedIn and you decided to join the class because I had given a lot of good advice there. Okay. Advice you valued advice that was useful to you. And so you said, oh, well, okay, he's good at this. Now I'll trust him for something else. If I had just come to you and you'd never met me and I just emailed you cold in your previous life and said, hey, you don't know me, but I teach a class on on how to grow your career. Do you want to sign up? What are the odds you would have? So that's your networking lecture about the value. I know you're all very busy. I do a show a hand sometime. How many of you feel you work too hard? Everybody puts their hands up so I don't bother anymore because I know the truth. This is a quote unquote extra thing. The good thing is it only takes a few minutes a day. You don't have to do very much. Connect to some people on LinkedIn, write an interesting post now and then, take someone to coffee, talk to people in the elevator. If you go into an office, share a carpool, there's a million ways to do this, including the last hour of this class. OK. But let me tell you just one of many stories of how I used my network. So the details don't matter, but I went into Ukraine to deliver medical aid after the war there started. So I was delivering supplies to a hospital. When I came out, it turned out that British Air had canceled my flight home. So my phone didn't work in Ukraine because it didn't work in a war zone. I come out and discover I don't have a flight home. I have to leave Poland, which is where I'd come out to in three days. I call British Airways. I'm like, you canceled my flight. They're like, we don't even have a record of your flight. Must be a problem with the people who bought the ticket through, which is Expedia. They said, you call Expedia. So I call Expedia. Expedia says, hmm, we do have a record, but we'll have to verify your story with British. That will take a couple of days. We'll get back to you in three days. I'm like, I'm supposed to fly home in three days. This isn't going to work for me to get back to me in three days. They say, OK, we'll get back to you in 24 hours. I'm very skeptical. 24 hours go by. They don't get back to me. What's my plan B? Reach out to my network. I reach out to my network. I tell a nice, compelling story. It's a great story, right, to tell, but you can come up with your own. For me, I just delivered medical aid to injured civilians in Ukraine, and now I'm trapped because British Air canceled my flight. Neither British Air nor Expedia can help me. Does anyone know anyone at either of those companies that can help me get home from my mission of mercy? I admit in this case, I'm telling a very appealing story, but I've done this with stories that aren't appealing. The punchline of this story, though, is within six hours, Expedia was calling me. It wasn't I was calling them. They were calling me. Asking how they could help me, giving me free miles, free tickets, free upgrades. I didn't know a single person in Expedia, and importantly, I didn't deeply know any of the people who connected me. Why does this kind of request work? People like to help and they like to be seen as helping. And though your request may be impossible for you, I couldn't get anybody on the phone at Expedia. There is somebody for who it's easy that it's no big deal. They have a good friend there. They can tag them and say, wow, this sounds bad. Can you help him out? That's what happened. So many executives got tagged at Expedia that I had half a dozen people working on my case. It was total overkill. Now, why do I tell this story? I could tell five other stories like it. I want you to understand this is the power of a network and it doesn't take that long to build. I built this whole network in three years. I wish someone had told me this 20 years ago because you can be doing it today. If you do, you can also build your network internal to a company. Remember the ski ticket example, the hiring hacks example is internal networking. Now, some of you are introverts and like, I hate networking. Don't make me walk around a cocktail party. That's not what I'm talking about. OK, I'm just talking about connecting to people, sharing common interests, building bonds. Connect the way you like. You don't have to network by working a cocktail party and meeting total strangers. Remember, if you work at the same company, you already have at least one thing in common. You're a Googler, right? I don't know what meta people call each other, but metastasites. That's kind of funny. Someone can put it in chat, right? But no matter where you work, you have you have commonality with all those people. They already want to meet with you, right? I crack myself up occasionally. If you want to get better at this, at asking people for things, read this book Rejection Proof. It's a great book. It's short. And this is one of the cases if you don't want to read the whole book, he did a YouTube series. You can look up this author, Jia Jiang, and watch him on YouTube, how he learned to ask people for things and how to get it. He did really well. Visibility and connections. We talked about 80 percent of this yesterday at the end when I talked about how can you make your team visible. But I want to give you just a slightly different lens. If you want to be ready for promotion and like right at the last minute, remember, if you're out of sight, you're out of mind. So if you're working remotely, you're working at a remote site or you're working from home, it's easy to forget you. What a lot of people fall into the trap and some of you are those people is, well, I won't. I'll wait until we have our big shipment. I'll wait until I have a big announcement to make an announcement because I want to do. I should only talk about really important things. This fails. There's something called recency bias. Recency bias means I mostly make my decisions. We all do, by the way, it's not just me. Science behind this. We make our decisions on the things we can remember from most recently. Now, all of you have experienced this in two ways. Number one, you've found that most of your review that's supposed to cover a year actually covers whatever you did in the last three months. Second, when you try to write your reviews for your team, if you're part of that or if you're an IC, when you try to give peer feedback, you struggle to remember what did that person do last June? You have no idea. How did they let you down in February? You're really clear. So how do you avoid this? You can't just wait for big events because the big events may not be well timed. Instead, send out frequent, simple communication. Volume triumphs trumps quality. Doesn't mean be low quality, but volume of communication, announcing the small wins is a better strategy than waiting for the home runs. You've got to announce. So this is something you can take action on today, which is ask, how am I going to create systematic visibility for myself and my team? So we talked about this already. I'm going to be brief here. The network you have sitting here is one set of power. You all have the same goals. You have the chance to team up. You have the chance to learn from others, get inspiration. Of course, use the networking sessions. You can also join the community that Jason and I are building. Some of you are already in it as a part of our substack newsletter. We have a specific set of networking channels in the Slack server that goes with that community where you can continue to build your network. Or do it some other way. Do it through your alumni network. Do it through your MBA network. Do it through your sporting club, your kids school. It doesn't really matter. Just do it. We talked about how new managers are a risk that if the manager doesn't know how to get a promotion done, they may not have the knowledge, the connections or the pull. I want to this is different than a bad manager. They're just new. There's a few things you can do, though. You can teach them yourself if you know, or at least give them pointers. You can change managers, of course. You can also point them to a mentor or get a sponsor that you have one of your mentors or sponsors to say, hey, my manager is trying to put me up for promotion. It's great. They don't really know our process. Can you coach them? I want to tell you a quick story. It's a fun story. I was once this manager. I was trying to get someone promoted to director. I had only done one director promotion. I was sitting in Andy Jassy is now CEO of Amazon, but he was CEO of AWS. I was sitting in his promotion decision meeting surrounded by 20 VPs. Now, if you look at my career, I never worked in AWS, but I reported there was a decision made to organize the game group under AWS, not because it was a web service, but because, well, game developers are developers and AWS is the developer place. So I was trying to sell a director promotion to 20 VPs who didn't know anything about games, didn't care about games and didn't really know me that well. I was struggling. There was another SVP in the room. He's a well-known character to some people in that space. I won't name him. He's a little bit of a curmudgeon. He likes to be edgy and kind of a get off my lawn kind of guy. I'm describing this promotion. He interrupts me and insults me. He says, Ethan, you're doing this all wrong. This is in a room of 20 of my peers. Thanks. But he then says golden words. You're doing this all wrong, but I think your person may deserve promotion. Can I explain it for you? Can I do it for you? Now, I could have gotten my back all up and been like, what am I doing wrong? Ask questions. This would not have served my team. I'm like, an SVP wants to take on justifying my promotion to a room. I just looked at him and said, yes, thank you. Please. I can eat a little crow for my team. What's happened here that's beautiful? What's beautiful is an SVP has now put his credibility on the line to justify the promotion to the room. My job is done. Somebody else is on the hook for doing this. It's someone senior to me. It's someone independent for me. I sat there. He told the story from his perspective. Of course, my person was promoted. The point of this is. If I'd have been better, I wouldn't have needed to be promoted. If I'd have been better, I wouldn't have needed that. Maybe if I'd have known more and had better relationships with the room. But you don't want your manager to be me. My person that I was really trying to help. It wasn't lack of intention. Might not have gotten there if I hadn't been lucky. Try to avoid relying on luck and get your manager educated. We now go to the last section of the course. I told you this course, this section was a little long between breaks. This part is very short and then we'll have a break before Q&A. I love that everyone has asked a lot of questions. We'll get through as many as we can. Very briefly. First thing you need to do. This is all just managing the strict process. Most companies have a written document or a packet or a proposal for promotion. Some questions. Have you seen what that packet looks like for your role and your level? Can you get a hold of a sample? Can you get a hold of an outline? Second, in some companies, the idea is the manager writes it. You know what? I wrote most of my own VP promotion. I wrote it and my boss edited it. You want to take as much control of this as you can. Even if your manager won't let you write it, they're like, no, no, I have to write it. You can send them stuff that says, well, I'm going to write it. They'll send you stuff that says, well, I just want to give you, hey, I just want to give you a summary of what I've done over the last five years in great detail. They'll cut and paste from it. What's the due date? The point is, don't mismanage the process and take as much ownership as you can. So a question for you. If you came to this class seeking promotion, as opposed to seeking to know the skills, you could go to another company. And you don't have your document in hand and you're not working on it and co-authoring it with your manager. Get on it. I've given you a lot of potential actions that might be one of the most tactical and immediate to work on Monday morning. Promotion process. So there's a meeting. We've talked about this meeting. You really need to have someone in the meeting if you can. Why is there a meeting? The idea, why is this not done just privately? The point of having a discussion of a bunch of people about promotions is to try to avoid favoritism. Oh, your boss likes you, so that's why you're getting promoted. And to try to assure that promotions are all at the same standard across the larger company. Does it work perfectly? Meh, I'm not here to debate that. That's the goal. Then there's usually a final review. So for example, the committee decided I should be made a vice president. But the list of all people being promoted to vice president goes to Jeff Bezos at that time. I'm sure now to Andy Jassy so that he can approve it. So this is I'm just telling you how the process works. But let me show you where skip level support matters. Quick story. I had another star employee. That star employee was very, very ambitious and he hadn't been in his level very long, but he wanted to move up yet again. He went, we told him, look, you need more time. You need to show more results. He instead went out and got a job offer from somewhere else. We didn't want to lose him. My skip made a deal with him. My skip level talked to his boss who was an SVP and said, we really want to keep this guy. He's critical. He's a star. I'm going to make him a promise that if he delivers the next big release, stays with us and delivers, we will promote him on the next cycle. SVP says, sure, keep him VP. My boss communicates that to him. He ships the release. Time comes. I need to write his document for promotion. I write his document. I take it to the review. Someone else in the room says, this guy's brand new. Why are we promoting him? My skip level manager happens to not be available for that meeting. He's not there. The SVP who approved this says, yeah, Ethan, this is absurd. Why are you bringing this guy's promotion? He's way too early. At which point, I'm really blunt. I look at the SVP and say, well, because you made this deal with them. You were part of guaranteeing him promotion if he shipped the release. To my horror, the SVP says, I did. I don't remember that. Oh, my God. Guysman promised promotion has done the work. The SVP is saying, I don't remember it. I literally look at them and say, I don't know what to do because you did. So meeting ends. Like on pause. The SVP has a little discussion at the end of the meeting. He says, well, if I promised him, we need to probably follow through. Probably, not definitely. My boss comes back, the skip level. He goes to his boss. The SVP says, yes, you promised this. I remember you doing it and we're damn sure going to follow through. Promotion happens. The point of this is I was a new manager. I was doing my best. It's the skip who got everything done. So as much as I said, your manager is critical. You need that skip level support also. Finally, just remember, this is a quote from everyone, including me. We always feel our promotion is overdue. The number of people I run into are like, man, I can't believe how quick I was promoted. It was so smooth. I never expected it. I thought it would be four years. They did it in 18 months. This never happened. So don't expect it. If you feel this way, just realize that's normal. It is a matter of some luck and some patience. I've seen a lot of promotions from senior manager to director at a lot of companies. Now I coach a lot of people across this divide. The average time is about six years. Some people get it as fast as three. Because of that, everybody wants to be three. Nobody wants to be nine. But you may not be three years. And so just realize some of that's luck. Are you part of a hot area? Do you get some easy big win? Is it high growth? Or, like now, is it layoffs, hiring freezes, and bad bosses? Remember the punchline. You've got to be patient. And then be tactically impatient. What are you going to do this afternoon after you get out of this class to start taking action? That's tactically impatient. Let me cover a few common mistakes. And then I think this is the last slide or very close. Because I know you've been sitting a while. Common mistake number one we talked about. Working hard and hoping to be recognized. You must self-promote somehow. Working hard and hoping to be recognized. And then worse, getting grumpy when you're not does not work. At the same time, being too demanding will antagonize people. You must push for a promotion, but not so much that it feels like you're nagging. It's a fine line. My rule for this is you should be talking to your manager once a quarter. Not once a week, not once a month. Once a quarter, roughly. Third thing, arrogance. I'm the smartest, I'm the best. Of course, you can both say this, a few of you would say it, but you can radiate it. Being full of yourself and so sure that you're the smartest person on your team, you'll make enemies. Blaming others. Blaming and pointing fingers usually doesn't work. If you're at a company where that does work, I'm sorry for you and you should probably leave. But usually, high ownership cultures are looking for people who solve problems, not who point fingers. We've talked about unprofessional conflict. We've talked about unprofessional conduct. Unprofessional conflict. Lose your temper, shout at people, get in arguments. Twenty years ago, the Steve Ballmer style of leadership and a few companies today getting in fights with people is part of the culture. Arguing. But at most companies today, losing your temper makes it easy for you to say, oh, see, not professional, no presence. Try to be, you may have to stand up for yourself, but be assertive, not aggressive. The other thing is we talked about politics. Don't get caught politicking. Don't get caught lying, manipulating, talking about people behind their back. Where did this just happen? I can't think of the example now. It's driving me nuts. But just in the last couple of days, someone basically got feedback because someone else was gossiping and the feedback got back to them. Just be careful. This stuff always comes out because juicy rumors are fun to tell. Remember, why did the rumor about me sleeping with my boss to get promoted circulate in my first company? Because it's a great story. Oh, someone's like people love juicy gossip. Just had the drawback of not being true. Don't be that person. Bottom line is on the right. Don't be a jerk. Don't give others easy reasons to dislike you because relationships are key. Don't give me an easy reason to choose someone else to promote. That's the key. Don't disqualify yourself from the race. Five word promotion summary. When I first started thinking about how to help senior managers, I talked to my colleague from Amazon, Dave Glick, who's now an SVP at Walmart. And he said, look, it's five words. Solve problems for your boss. Being helpful and proactive really matters. Someday I will write a book. I'm considering titling the whole book simply proactive. That's what makes a difference. Are you waiting around to be told or are you finding valuable things to do and getting them done? Stop thinking so much about what your boss is asking for and start thinking more about what can I do that creates value? If you create value for your company, ultimately that goes well. Also talk to your boss, but think about how do I create value? What problem can you go and solve that will make your company money? Either directly money or the proxies for money, better services, faster services, cheaper services, more sales, better marketing, et cetera, et cetera. So we want to do one final breakout. I think, by the way, there's a break after this. We've been too long without a break. So what I want to do is move up one of our breaks. Do it now because it's been an hour and a half. Take five minutes until eleven seventeen. When you come back, we're going to do this breakout. I'll review the breakout at eleven seventeen Pacific time and we'll jump into this. But let's take the break now because I want people fresh for this. So Jason, stop the recording. Let's go. So, like I said, raise your hand real quick if you would like to share a really good suggestion you got in your breakout for the rest of you. I'll note that we have seventy six questions for Q&A. Three of them have a lot of votes and then it really tails off. So if you haven't gone through the Q&A tool and put in your input, right, there's one hundred and ten of you here. It's the most popular question should have a lot of votes. So if you want me to answer something, is your chance. I'll give you a chance. Meanwhile, I'm not sure. I think it's Nina. You're first, Nina. Thank you. Thank you for the amazing content, Ethan. I have to say, like every single slide had something that I could focus and stress on. And I think this answer can be several. But one of the very interesting was really going out and putting your face out there asking for help. You know, asking both top down and bottom down and top up and saying, hey, what am I doing? Great. Is there something that I can focus on? Is there something I can help you and make your life easy? That's again, one of it. And then another thing is providing constant updates. You know, I notice and reflecting back as you were talking through this was, oh, we do provide update, but they're so sporadic. They're not constant. But you know, putting even small wins of, hey, this was supposed to be done within a week. We accomplished this in two days. And here are the couple wins. Really calling it out and really doing this as a team. You know, the we thinking rather than I thinking. Here are the two things. And again, I can keep going about this, but I want to give others. No, I think that's that's thank you. Thank you very much also for the positive feedback. We're going to talk about the positive feedback in just a minute. But thank you. Gopi. Hi, even. Hi. Thanks so much for these discussions. The breakout sessions are key takeaway from for me. So one of the places where I'm stuck is even though I am great in strategy thinking and execution side of things, the thing which which I wear I'm stuck is basically how I can increase the trust or kind of have a great trust within the team. Right. So I had some great suggestions from Nirmal and Andrea in my breakout session where they mentioned that if each of your team members would have like diverse needs and asks, some people would like an autonomy. Some people would like for you to kind of stay closer to the details and stuff. And these were some really great traditions. And I'm going to take back retrospect more on how to be a great manager for my team. Likewise, on how I would expect from my manager. I think that's that's my biggest takeaway. All right. Very good. Thank you. Raju. Hey, thanks for the opportunity. So one quick thing or takeaway from our breakout session. I have a different kind of you know I moved from US to India and you know I'm trying to adjust here and a lot of my functional leadership at my current company is still back tied to US. So I was kind of discussing you know how I can make the best out of it. And I mentioned that as a challenge and we did kind of you know put in an interesting perspective to that saying that you know why don't you kind of flip that and see because there is a lot of growth and you know the focal point in the current market dynamics. There is a lot of focus on India and you know how you can use that as a leverage rather than trying to think that you know your functional leadership is more in the US than in India. So that that I thought was that was an interesting point. I need to see how I can kind of leverage that. But yeah, I thought that was interesting. All right. Very good. Yeah. Turning part of how we feel about our careers is just how we choose to look at it. Liabilities can be assets if we view them different ways. Not all the time but a lot of the time. Speaking of which, we just talked about feedback. At the end of this course, you will be getting a survey from Maven. Before I go on, I'll just comment briefly on that survey. We appreciate the survey responses. We would ask you're going to be given a chance to rate the class on a 10-star scale. We of course would love 10-star reviews. We'd love them so much that if you don't feel you've had a 10-star experience, please reach out to Jason as a contact. You have email from him. He can put his email in chat and he and I will see if there's any way we can turn your experience into a 10-star experience. Now, we're not going to do that by giving you a two-hour consulting session. That's not what the class is about. But we would love a 10-star review if you can do it. If you can't, that's life. But if we can fix something, let us know and we appreciate your feedback. So let's cover just a few more slides and then we'll get into Q&A. We are literally at the summary. I told you that this is about you, your team and your company. That was mostly yesterday, some today. How do you conduct yourself? How do you lead your team? How do you contribute to your company? If you need two words, it's about being trusted and being proactive, taking steps on your own. The thing I want to tell you though is you're on your way. Some people love this story when I tell it. I want to remind you one thing I did is I worried a ton about my career and would I ever get there? You are almost certain to get the promotion you want and the one after that if you keep working because frankly I've seen lots of people get promoted over time. It's a time factor. Second, if you're in this class listening to me, you have tons of advantages. You're making enough money you can pay for the class. You speak, read and write English, whether it's your first or second language. You work at a good company somewhere or you have or you can. You live in a place with internet access. Just remember as a contrast, somewhere in the world right now, there is someone who theoretically is equally smart as you plowing up a furrow behind a water buffalo and they would trade everything to have your problems. Right? I'm not saying we should feel bad about where we are, but just keep in mind to the point of attitude, you are on track to have everything you want in life. Maybe not at the speed you want, but you will get there. I want you to leave with that confidence. I wish I had always had that confidence, but we're so much better off than almost everyone else. So here is a summary of all the actions we talked about. Plan and commit to your follow-up work. Figure out what you can stop and delegate. Protect your innovation time, that one hour, that one golden hour. Solve a problem for your boss. How can you deliver more now in hard times? How can you be more efficient? What are you going to do to systematically increase your visibility? And finally, start writing your document. Right? Start the writing part. Okay. So, I have other classes. You've heard about them. This is in your slides. You get a discount. If you need help with something else specific, it's there. You can find me in all these places. The QR code will take you to a link where you can find me everywhere. But if you're not already well connected to me everywhere, these are your places you can do it. And with that, we're not going to take a five-minute break. I'm going to kill the screen share. And we're going to go into Q&A. And I will run Q&A until about 1230. And then Jason will pick up and run another structured networking event so you can continue to build your connection. By the way, when you rate us, remember, the networking is all bonus. It's not part of the course. It's not what was advertised to you. It's all extra value because we learned from past classes people really value it. So, I'm going to bring everybody here, get my slides out of the way, change my view so I can see everyone. And we're going to take question one, which has tons of votes. So, Rodrigo, you're good at asking questions just like Frederick was yesterday. Yours get voted up a lot. You probably hired many outside directors. Do you have any tips on interviewing for director level positions? What does the panel look like, et cetera, et cetera? Yeah, we haven't talked as much about how to get jobs. Research from Forbes. Eighty percent of jobs are gotten through networking. Eighty percent of jobs at this level are never publicly posted. So, if you're running around looking for openings on a website somewhere else, you're probably going to struggle. The ways to get those jobs are A, build your network. We've already talked about that. I won't rehash it. B, executive headhunters. If you Google in Forbes top executive headhunting firms, you'll get a list of a dozen. In the top five, there is one that I don't count and use number six instead. The one I don't count is a firm called Robert Half. I don't know how they got on the list. Robert Half mostly deals with high volume, low skill or medium skill. But all the other headhunters have specialty practices and they have a lot of these positions. Why aren't they listed? They're not listed because someone's afraid to tell you they exist. They don't want to tell, say, the people on the team that they're going to hire someone in over them. Or they're about to fire someone and they want to open the search ahead of time to get a jump start on it. But of course, if they're managing me and telling me I have a chance to survive my pivot focus PIP plan, but really they want to start looking for my backfill, they can't do that publicly. So they go to a headhunter and have them start calling people or start looking for candidates. So the headhunters, those firms which are Robert Parker, something Stevens, I can't remember the name, Heidrick and Struggles, Egon Zender, you can find the list. Those are the people who have the executive roles. Now, how do you interview for them? I believe that directors are hired for their impact. So the big thing I talk about is they're not hired for the work they're going to do. Early in your career, you're hired for the work. You're a finance person. Are you going to create the report? You're a marketer. Are you going to write the post? You're an engineer. Are you going to create the software? This is not why we hire directors. We don't hire directors to manage people. We hire directors to drive an outcome. So when you go to that interview, your resume should reflect what has been your impact or your outcome. And you want to be able to speak to what's my impact? What can I deliver? What is the proof that you can trust me with your problems and that I've shown a track record of solving them? Now, why is a referral or some sort of networking connection so important? It's again about trust. A lot of leaders would rather hire someone slightly less talented that they believe is going to be reliable and not a risk to them, as opposed to take a risk on someone who might be the smartest. That's just fact. And that fact, though, this is not surprising. Would you rather if you I just had surgery on my shoulder because I broke my shoulder in a skiing accident. I broke my collarbone. Would you rather have someone operating on you that you think is pretty good and you know them and trust them and have a relationship so you know they're going to treat you like a friend, not just a patient? Or would you rather go to someone you've never met, but statistically you hear they're very smart? Most people are going to pick the doctor they know as long as they think the doctor is competent over the person they've never met, but who has a bunch of degrees on the wall. The same is true at the director level. There is a push because it's so painful. If I get someone on my team I don't like or that isn't any good, that is so painful. I'd rather compromise a little bit on performance to have someone I know and trust. So work that network and convey that. Remember, emotional intelligence is critical. Even in the interview, even if you don't know the person, you need to. It's got to be a give and take. I see people all the time. I help people with practice interviews and my clients, they talk too much. They go on and on. They never ask, am I answering your question? Is there anything else you'd like to know? There's a secret. After you answer a question at not too much length, you say, Ethan, did I answer your question fully? This is a secret trick. Why? If I say yes, then I'm convincing myself you did answer it. It's easier when there's something called cognitive dissonance, which makes it hard for me to say yes you answered well and be lying to you. On the other hand, if I say no, nobody just says, well, no, Kelly, that was a terrible answer, but we're going to move on. They never say that. They say, no, I really wanted to know X, and then you get a second shot at the question. So either way you win. So anytime you're not sure you've nailed the question, just own it. I say, hey, I covered the basics of that, but I wasn't sure where you wanted to go deeper. Is there any place you want more information? That's another way to ask the same question. So you just find ways to keep verifying that you're hitting it. Not too much to catch on, but anytime you're in trouble. All right. How is it different than internal promotion? Well, it's different from internal promotion. It's honestly sometimes easier because there isn't all this. Well, for one thing, when you're interviewing for a role, there is a role. When you're trying to get promoted internally, there's all these questions. It's already been determined there's a director level role. When you're trying to get promoted internally, there's this question, is your role director level? Are you qualified? Should we wait six more months for more evidence? There's a famous story at Amazon, infamous maybe. And again, I only quote Amazon because I know the details. I'm sure this happens everywhere. Ten years ago now, Amazon was very stingy on promoting people to principal engineer. Very stingy. They did some statistics though, and this is what they found. Of the people they promoted to principal engineer, within a year, one percent of them were judged to be low performers and were put on performance plans or fired. Of the ones they hired externally, 10 or 11 percent were put on performance plans or fired. So this isn't an argument that 10 percent's a good number, but it is an argument that if we're holding people to such high standards internally that we have only a one percent failure rate, we're being too stingy because we're accepting 10 percent externally. So oftentimes, if you can find the role, it's easier. This goes to my point of the person who went to Sears and jumped up from the senior level, the first level manager, the senior individual contributor, all the way to VP, because the role was there and nobody else wanted it, frankly. So there are lots of differences. We could talk about this at length, but that's a few key differences. If you don't know what else to do, practice your stories of how you've solved big problems. Be able to tell the story about how you made a difference. Because remember, I talked about being hired to be a change agent. You're not being hired to do work. You're being hired to own something and solve the problems at the director level or higher. Let's go on to Aditi. GMO, I'm assuming that means you are a GM or you want to be a GM. It'd be great to learn some tips on how to best structure orgs so teams are high performing and develop great leaders in the org. So I don't cover this because two reasons. Structures vary a lot and lots of structures can work. But I will share since you've asked how I think about structure. Essentially, there is no perfect structure for all scales because you have to alternate between centralizing functions and distributing functions. I know software best so I use software as an example. You build a software team, you've got five, six, eight engineers, but you're only going to have one product manager. Maybe you have one QA person. Maybe you have one technical program manager. One option to organize them is to put all those other one-offs, the product manager, the program manager, et cetera, under the software engineering manager because they're your only manager. And so you put them all in this one group and it has the advantage. Amazon calls this structure a single threaded leader. And so the idea is one leader has and controls all the resources they need to deliver. This is great for ownership. It's great for putting everybody in the same team. It's terrible for redundancy backup and career development because this product manager who wants to learn from other product managers has no community and the QA engineer has no community. And so I didn't mention designers. If you put the designer in this team, the designer, yes, they know exactly what team they're a part of and what product they're working on, but they are working for someone who can't draw a straight line with a ruler. That's me, by the way. So what's the other option? Well, you have a bunch of engineering teams under a director. And then under that director, you have a manager of product management, a manager of design, a manager of program management, maybe some other things. QA, what goes wrong with this? Well, what inevitably happens is people are then not aligned to their individual products. Instead, they become shared pools of resources. And you go to the design manager and you lobby and say, I need a lot of design done. Can you give me all the design resources for this month? And the design manager says yes to me and says no to Jason. And then Jason's blocked. And I argue, see, my product's the highest priority. So what you get there is resource contention and bottlenecking. It's also great for those designers or product managers to have community with each other, but they don't get to know their teams as deeply because they're sitting with the other product managers and they're not sitting with the engineers. So my ultimate philosophy on this has become alternate the structure over time with growth. Put everyone together, then the team grows bigger, split it apart and embed them, and then you can just use that for a year, bring them back together. I don't say reorg frequently, but I do say sometimes the right way to get what you want is to oscillate the groupings over time or restructure as you grow. Give people some time in their communities, give them some time organized with their groups. The one thing I will also say on structure, emphasize ownership, emphasize clarity of who is responsible. Some of you may have heard of this thing called a RACI chart. RACI, I don't use it all the time, but like Responsible, Accountable, Consulted, Informed, I think is what the letters mean. You want to keep everyone focused on what it is they're supposed to be doing. Because if you have ambiguity, I'll tell a story once. This is a quick story. I once had someone that I went to with a suggestion about how they could improve their work, and they said to me, well, that's not in my job description. Would you like to see it? They didn't argue with me that I wasn't right about the work being valuable. They were just telling me, I'm not assigned to do that, so I'm not going to. You want to avoid things getting dropped because it's not clear who owns it. You want clear ownership because at least then you can have accountability and know whose feet to hold to the fire, who to reward and who to replace. By the way, I am sometimes harsh reputation. Most of you are managers. You got to be willing to replace people who aren't performing. Yes, coach them first. Yes, give them a chance. And yes, move them on. If you can't do that, you'll never have a high performing team for two reasons. One, you'll have dead weight on your team. And two, your high performers will feel like suckers. Why should I work hard? It keeps that person. So high performing teams need high standards. Next question, Henry. Is it realistic to grow into senior leadership and executive levels while keeping your work to 40 or 50 hours per week? It is. It's hard. It depends on the company. My best advice on this is you must focus. If you want to keep your work lower, you have to be really good at figuring out what work is going to have impact. What work is going to have to be good at saying no and good at doing the work that's going to generate results. The key word I've learned in my own life for this is what work is high leverage. What work generates the most outcome for the least time? I will give you an example. I've mentioned a few times that I have stopped accepting new coaching clients. It's not because I don't love to coach. It's because I can talk to 114 of you at once and help you all, or I can talk to one person. There's more leverage in talking to 114, even if Bob is yawning. Caught you, Bob. Maybe he's laughing about it. It's OK. I don't. It's fair to be tired. I got you all up early. Absolutely. So this is very hard, but it can be done if you're smart about your work. So you can. It's discipline. It's discipline to say no. It's discipline to stop. It's discipline to walk away with a to-do list hanging over you. I really struggle. It's also discipline to take some negative feedback where people are like, well, you could have done more. You didn't get this done. It's. You you you where this breaks down is if you have a boss who manages more by hours than by impact. If you end up with a manager who's and we see this right, what's part? It's not the whole strategy behind return to office, but places that are pressing for return to office. They want people back in the office so that they can see them. Well, if your leadership is managing by how much they can see you, it's going to be hard because someone remember there's always someone else who's willing not just to work 50 hours, but 100. And so if that's the management stake. Right now, there are dirty tricks you can pull. You can always pull tricks like schedule some of your rights and emails at four o'clock and schedule them to send a date o'clock. I think I don't encourage this really, but, you know, definitely there are some people that that make themselves look like they're working all the time and they're just using technology to help them out. So I at least want to acknowledge the dirty tricks that are out there. This is. Leverage impact. Those are your keywords. Think about am I getting the results and am I working somewhere where results are what is valued, not FaceTime. All right. Steve is a big question. I have a development meeting. Oh, I did pre read some of this. My goal is to have a development plan. Other people can read this themselves. It'll be in chat. I'm sure. There it is. Okay. So you're going to bring facts about your achievement. Um, I guess the first thing I would do is go ask your manager how to best handle the meeting. In other words, what's the best way to take advantage of it. I want to ask my manager, honestly, because they're going with you. I want us both to look good in this meeting. I know it's important to you that I show up as a strong member of your team. How can I best do that? What's the SVP looking for? Can you review what I'm going to take and give me guidance? That's one thing I would do. It's a great team up and it's true, right? It's true that they don't want you to go fumble that in front of their boss. So get their help. The second thing would be all the stuff I just said about impact. Don't just take your activities. Don't even just take your achievements. Try to show what those achievements meant. What was the impact from them? Why? Why did it matter? So I would try and take all of that stuff as well. And then there's a good rule people like that when I talk about executives, executives are busy. I say be bright, be quick, be gone. You want to be smart and on point. You also don't want to necessarily drag it out and then you want to get the hell out. Mostly your goal here is to give them a few prompts and a few tidbits and then get them talking about what else they want or how they're going to help. So I would also be thinking if it's say a 30 minute meeting or an hour, try to only talk for 40% of it and get them to talk for 60. Okay. Next question. Jay, as someone who is not a native English speaker and needs time to think, what are some things I can do to improve my ability to process faster? The best possible way you can practice this is what you see me doing right now. Find a place where people hit you up with questions. Do it in a low stakes place if you need to, but nothing will change. If you think about what I'm doing, I'm literally having questions pop up in front of me and I'm needing to address whatever the hell it is any of you have written about and voted on. And I need to do it in a convincing way that that resonates with you and gives you valuable information. If you want to practice, the other way to practice is improv. Go take a class on improv, improv comedy. You may think this is crazy, but it's a huge business technique right now. It makes a lot of sense to me. Improv comedy is literally where you have to riff off somebody else. It's low stakes training on how to be dynamic and quick on your feet. And there are rules to improv. But the point is you need to practice improvising. Sometimes, by the way, even though probably none of you have figured this out or some of you have, hopefully very few, occasionally when I start one of these answers, I have no damn idea where I'm going. Right. I just start talking about something that comes into my head and I'm thinking in parallel and I'm working my way around to the proper answer to the best answer. For better or for worse, as long as what you're saying is not wildly off base, this works very well. Because if you get to a good answer, that's what people remember and they don't necessarily notice that maybe you said a couple of only sort of good things along the way. So find a place to practice for all these speaking skills. It's find a place to practice. All right. How do you deal with a manager who used to be your peer, which means you are the same level now and they're finding ways to replace you? Well, if they truly are trying to replace you, you should start on your resume and leave because this is a dirty secret. Okay. As a manager, I can always fire you. If I'm a good manager in good standing and I want rid of you, doesn't matter how good you are, if I have truly decided that I'm willing to take some risks to get rid of you, I can do it. Why? Because accomplishments are not objective. Accomplishments are rarely so provable that I can't poke a few holes and call the glass that you think is three quarters full one quarter empty. I can always find fault with something you've done. It was a little too late. A few too many customers didn't like it. You lost a single person. I can always find something to criticize. Now, if you really have a hostile boss who wants to get rid of you, they will succeed. Go ahead and get ahead of that. Now, if you don't like that answer, which is fine, then the irony is them having a same level report should be a feather in their cap. You want to see if you can talk to them or get them to see you as an asset, not as a liability. See that having seen one of the most powerful things you can have is if you're a vice president, have a vice president reporting to you. If you're a director, have other directors working for you because that shows that you're a big, big leader. So this person's honestly doing something dumb. Maybe you can show them a better way. But if you can't, you need to get out. In the end, all of these questions are specific variations. All of these questions about relationships are specific variations of how to get them to see a win in your relationship, how to make it so that they see value. And if you can't get them to see value, if you can't offer them value or get them to see value, ultimately you're better off spending your time getting out. Henry, I love how much you smile. I hope you're smiling at me and not what you're watching on YouTube in the next window. All right. There's a few people smiling big. Thank you. Mayank. In most big tech companies right now, there are more senior levels than they need. True. Google did this explicitly, by the way. They kept extra people at the high levels because they wanted to retain that top talent. Due to layoffs, macroeconomic headwinds and more, as a result, the companies have slowed down the promotion process. Also true. In your view, should people keep performing and wait it out or think about changing? How does one decide if waiting an artificial additional amount of time is good for their career? You have to have some other better opportunity. Read the book Decisive. It will talk about how to make this decision in eight hours of detail, which I can't do here. But the book is exactly about the process to make this kind of decision. If you're unwilling to read the book, which is a mistake, it's the best possible book. But if you're just not going to do it, you can Google Chip and Dan Heath Decisive Wrap Process, WRAP, and get a one page PDF that will give you the one page summary of the book. Now, it's not as good as the book, but if you're that person, then do that at least. It will tell you some things about how to evaluate a big life decision. Here's what I would do. If you're in a place where there's no promotion opportunity right now, I would work on my base skills. I would build my network. I would look for better jobs and realize that building my network and looking for better jobs are the same thing. And if I find a better job, more opportunity before things break open in my current place, then I would leave. Otherwise, I would stay. One thing the Decisive Book will teach you is this does not need to be either or. It can be both. Instead of framing yourself into should I stay or should I go, frame, reframe as how do I maximize my career and how do I do a little of each so that I'm always in a great position? I'm making the best of it. Now that will take more work. I wish I had the way for you to have all the options on earth and work less. The trick to that is this leverage again, selective negligence, but that's very in saying no and being clever and leading your team well so they do all the work. Remember, by the way, what's boring work for you is someone else's great opportunity to step up. There's someone under you if you lead a team or even if you're a senior individual contributor, there's an eager person who wants to learn new skills that your boring work is there. Oh, my God, I get to do this. Use that, use it. Run with it. Okay, you're helping them and they're helping you. Tony, how can how can you quickly adapt to situations where people talk over you have a quick to speak bias? Do you have any training tips or examples? So I was this person, which makes it hard for me to advise you. I was the interrupt others talk over others person and I'm going to own that. The reason I'm on this side of the microphone is I'm the person who can talk for three and a half hours. That said, the ways around this are pre plan your comments. If most of the time the meeting topic is known, you have a pretty good idea where there'll be discussion. Have your topic ready to go so the minute the topic comes up, you can jump in ahead of everyone's because you already know what you plan to say. Second, have again have someone else in the room who asks. And sorry, I said Tony and your name is Tom. I apologize. The G looked like a Y, but who says, Hey, Tom, what do you think? By the way, form a partnership with someone else who's slow to speak or who has trouble breaking in. The two of you can do this for each other. Right. You make a partnership. Elizabeth asked what Bob thinks. Bob asked what Elizabeth thinks. It's a great plan. Right. And you can be more. There's a lot of ways to do this. There are other ways to do it. If you're on Zoom, raise your hand. You can raise your hand visually. You can raise your hand virtually. You can raise your hand in the room. These things are usually respected because we've been trained in them since kindergarten. Like let the person who's raised their hand speak next. It doesn't work all the time, but that's another easy way to signal I want to talk. So do that. That's a definite. Those are some tips. Sandeep, how do you figure out a 10x problem? Or if you have found one, make yourself the candidate to be the one to solve it. The way to find one is to walk through your business area, whatever it is, whatever area of the business you work in, and simply ask, what if we had 10x as many customers? What if we made 10x as much money? What if we had 10x as many bugs coming in? What if we had 10x as many transactions on the server? What if, what if, what if? And figure out which one's likely or would lead to a lot of benefit. It's a thought exercise. Then the way you make yourself a candidate to solve it is you work on the solution and you don't just bring up the problem and say, hey, manager, I noticed this possible problem. You say, hey, I was thinking about how we can scale our services or how we can make more money or how we can sell more, whatever your chosen problem is. And I have a proposal. Would you be interested? Would it be valuable if we could multiply our sales by 10? Would it be valuable? Right? That's how you do it. You, you... That's one way you do it. The second way is remember. Remember what we said earlier. Nobody volunteers. Your manager doesn't have anybody coming to them and saying, hey, I thought long and hard about a problem that would be valuable and I have a proposal for it. Would you like to hear it? Most people want to hear it because you've covered the what's in it for them. I figured out a way we could double our sales. Are you interested? No one in their right mind says, no. I figured out a way we could cut our number of customer escalations down. Would you like to talk about it? Nobody says no to those questions. I mean, if they do, you have a really terrible boss. Move on. And I, there is sometimes no solution. If you truly have a terrible boss or a terrible environment. But that's okay. You'll be happier somewhere else. In those cases, stop putting effort into pleasing your idiot boss. Once you're sure it's there, an idiot, as opposed to you just haven't asked for the right support and you haven't built a relationship and put your effort into building a network and going somewhere where you're appreciated. Because remember, there are bosses like me. There are bosses that want to invest in you and want to promote you and want to help you. They're not completely unheard of. How do you know? Well, most of you think you're that boss. Most of you are managers. Some of your ICs. Most of your managers. And you think you're that boss who's investing in your people. So you must believe they exist because only a very few of you are sitting here saying, you know, actually I drive my team as hard as I can. And I don't really care about them. I just burn them out, churn them and advance my own career. There probably are a couple of you, if you're really honest, that's what you've learned to do. But very few. The rest of you think you're better. Well, it means a lot of people out there, other bosses also think they're better. Find those bosses and help them be better. And if you are that person, please change. You don't have to be you don't have to be that person to get ahead. You really don't. Maybe you did in like medieval times where people died on the ends of swords or something, but you don't have to do that now. All right. What are your thoughts around how to do your best at your current job, knowing that growth is not coming and change is the next step? Yeah, so this is tough. It's tough to stay engaged and not check out when you think it's over. Part of this is your own self-respect. What sort of person do you want to be? What what? In the end, you shouldn't be working for promotion. You should be working for who it is you want to be in your life. And promotion should be a side effect of being clear on your own goals, being clear on what you want to achieve. And you're doing it for you, not for some paycheck. Now, I know that's very idealistic, but many of you have the freedom to be at least somewhat idealistic and figure out what it is you want from life and work for your own goals and let promotion follow. That said, it does take extra energy to split your attention. So don't try to have split attention for too long. Stay dedicated to your current job. But if you really think you're going to change, don't just dream of change. Have an actual plan for change and put some effort into it. Because the way to drive yourself crazy is to sit around wishing you weren't in the job you were in and believing it's a dead end and saying, I plan to change, but not actually doing anything. Just hoping a great job phones you up. That will drive you crazy because you're going to be unhappy with your job and unhappy you're not finding a new one. And really, it's you're not doing the work. I told you like five times in this class, I wish I had the solution where you could have everything you want in life and not work hard. I don't have that too. So got to do that. Okay. Does VP hiring happen through regular channels like LinkedIn or is it something that happens offline through exec recruiting? VP hiring almost always is exec recruiting. The exec recruiters may look on LinkedIn for profiles, so have a great profile, but they're not going to post a job. A posted VP job is like weird. The company is doing a bad job or they're desperate or they're very small startups. They can't afford to pay an executive recruiter, in which case it's totally legit. But big companies, in fact, have their own in-house recruiting firms. By the way, executive recruiting. Really big companies. So, by the way, when I said go to those headhunting firms, they're not going to find you VP jobs at an Amazon or Google. Because Amazon and Google have their own executive recruiting firms, executive recruiting groups. Instead, they're going to find you VP jobs in mid-sized companies or they're going to do the hiring for the SVP or the CEO at an Amazon size company. But their big companies have their own exec recruiters. So this stuff happens through networks and exec recruiting. Follow-up question. For someone who's starting to look around for a director level position, what are some tips for reaching out to your network to ask if their company is hiring? Ask a different question. Reach out to your network and ask them what challenges they're facing and how their company is doing and chat to them about how they enjoy their company. And once you have them chatting with you, it takes a little longer. But ask them, hey, Ethan, do you like Acme Inc.? Do you like it there? How's it going for you there? Everybody knows that you're probably fishing for a job, but you're talking to them about them. This is Dale Carnegie and how to win friends and influence people. Don't start by asking for a favor for you. Start by asking how they're doing and are they happy and what are they like and dislike? Ask them about their work. What's challenging and exciting? Once you do that, say, hey, is there any opportunity I could come? Like you seem to really love it there. Are there any opportunities where I could join you? But you've reminded them that you're a friend and that they like you. Why do they like you? Because you ask things about them, because you pay attention to them. We all like people who care about us. It's just natural. It's how humans are wired. It's probably biological in that long ago, people who liked us also shared their food with us when we were starving. And that was really important. So we are biologically wired to like people who are nice to us and pay attention to us because it's a survival trait. Do that, then ask them for help. So, Jay, that's your superpower tip for the day. Rodrigo, how do you approach your manager deciding to hire an outside director instead of promoting you? I just dealt with this yesterday with someone. All right. First, definitely approach them. Because they're already planning on hiring someone other than you. The worst that can happen is that they stick to that plan. The worst that can happen is when you ask them, they can laugh like you're crazy and stick to the plan. But that's unlikely to happen. So the question to ask them first is, are you open to me as an option for this role? Here's why I think I'd like to do it. Here's what I could do. If they say no, which is more likely than not, because they've already started an external search, have your follow up questions ready. Your next question, you need four questions here. First question, can I have this job? Here's what I could do. Second question. Okay, you've said no. Under what circumstances would you consider me? I know you're not considering me right now, but under what circumstances would you consider me? Just dream with me. What would make you consider me? The reason is there's always an answer to that. There's always some circumstance. Well, if you were more experienced, well this, well that. At least you'll learn. And maybe you can talk them into it. Third question. Can I, would you consider letting me step up to this on an interim basis while you're hiring? Could I do this job on an interim basis so I get the experience? Fourth question. They're still saying no. You're still striking out. Fourth question. Well, I know you're down a person right now. That must be hard for you. Is there any way I can help you? Help you cover up the costs of your job? Help you cover that gap? They're almost certain to say yes to that. And it gives you a chance to help out and do part of the job. If you want to go for a bonus fifth question, maybe you don't ask these all at once. You ask what key areas should I focus on right now to get closer? If there's one thing I should change or do right now or you'd like me to see work on to get closer so next time you'd consider me? But if you have those questions, you can have a great conversation and end up offering help. And you'll almost always get something. This is off topic but on topic. 70% of people who go and ask for a raise get something. They may not get everything they ask for, but they get something. At the same time, 70% of people have never asked for a raise. We don't actually go ask. This is the point of that book, rejection proof. If you want to get good at asking for things, read rejection proof. All right, Ethan, can you please speak more about appearance, specifically dress style? Dress style tends to be very relaxed, almost sloppy. However, I dress slacks in dress shirt. My wife says this is hurting me. I am not the best fashion consultant, but you want to balance fitting in with looking slightly better. More formal is what better means than your competition. So the first thing, it doesn't matter how your peers dress. It matters how your manager is dressing and how their manager is dressing. Second, you want to look slightly more put together than that without looking desperate, meaty, or out of step. So if everybody is wearing t-shirts, maybe don't wear a dress shirt, consider a polo. If everyone is wearing jeans with holes in them, maybe don't go to dress slacks, wear nicer jeans. If you want to just be a little better, there is another option. It won't fit many of you. You can just dress completely different. I knew one guy whose statement was he owned a hundred pairs of loud golf pants. Golf pants are the ones that are like plaid and polka dots and all kinds of color. He wore a different pair of golf pants every day. It made him memorable. He owned who he was and stood out. That's another way to do it is you can have a signature look. So I know a guy, many of you come from, well, many of you are familiar with this, particularly those of you who come from India. He's a Sikh. Sikhs wear a turban. He wears a bright yellow one. Man, everybody knows who he is and when he's coming. It's a signature look. It's a sunshine yellow turban makes him look like a happy guy. Right. So he asked me about like, I know it's tough for me to fit in because my beliefs require that I don't cut my big beard and that I have this turban. So I make it into an advantage. So that's another way to go about it. So. People have some follow ups on this or some advice. Try picking more interesting shirts. See interesting. Be interesting, but not. Don't it doesn't have to be strictly like better. And yeah, get a few opinions. Remember, you can go to Nordstrom and not actually buy what they tell you. They won't welcome you back necessarily, but you can go get some advice at a few different places. Let's be honest. Okay. Those of us in IT are not known for our fashion sense between having never been taught, never having cared, seeing frankly expensive clothes as a dumb use of money. We often don't thrive. It's an easy win to look a little better than other people because some people will judge you by this. All right. I found some useful resources. Thank you, Thomas, for sharing that. We've got a few more minutes and a few more questions. So who die in? How much investment should we make in establishing external posting on LinkedIn, et cetera, executive presence, along with curating intern? Well, do you plan on dying at your current company? No. Okay. Probably you should invest some. But leaving aside my snarky answer. I have more network inside Amazon now that I'm big on LinkedIn than I had when I was there. People at your company read and follow what what other people at your company say in public. Believe me. So there isn't really a choice here, meaning you can get the benefit of both do some internal stuff. But when you do external stuff, you get the benefit of building a network elsewhere, along with strengthening your network internally. I've literally been told, and I'm sure there's many Amazonians here who can confirm this, that when I post something and it's about Amazon, it resonates. The Amazonians get a bit get together and talk about what did Ethan say. So they're watching. And that's true when you're there even more. If you hold a role, they're watching you internally. So because if you're a leader, other leaders want to know what you're saying because they want to say it or they want to be they want to be like you, but they don't know how or they don't think they have time. They're watching. So you gain the network and the reputation either way. The real thing is just take the action. Follow up is exec presence. Resume building agencies are worthwhile investment. I don't think so. I have a class on how to make a great resume. It's way cheaper than that, but I'm not selling in my class. I just wrote an article for Byte Byte Go, a big newsletter on everything that's in the class, and that's either free or whatever their newsletter costs. There might be like I'm sure, by the way, I'm sure there is some consultant out there that can help you with your executive presence and with your profile building and tell you how to have a bigger social media presence. So if you need that to get started, you need that confidence, you need that help, you need the handholding. Pay for it because this is the thing about all of you. You're not quite wealthy yet, but you're also damn sure not poor. And so one of the things to ask yourself is how can I be using some of my money to accelerate my career? Now, you did that by taking this class. Thank you. But you can do that more. And I know what most of your jobs pay. If you ask, what is your self training budget on a given year? Probably for most of you, for those of you not, congratulations. Probably for most of you, what you paid for this class is the most you've spent this year or even a couple of years on improving yourself. For those of you who spend more, good job. You're investing smartly. If you're not investing in yourself, who should you invest in? Now, there are a lot of scams. OK, check your references, get your ratings, talk to others. But if you can find smart investments to make in yourself, who else should you invest in? You know, it's funny, if I offered to talk to you a lot about where to make angel investing, you'd all sign up and be interested. That's investing in somebody else's career. Why aren't you investing that money in yourself? Because who do you trust more, the random founder at some angel place or you? Believe me, your motives are never as much aligned as when you're investing in yourself. So you should be your own best investment. And if you're not willing to be your own best investment, you should like look in the mirror and figure out your life. I finally got Ashok to crack a smile. I finally reached him enough that he's like, OK, that's funny. I like that. Thank you. OK, Gary. How do we handle someone who has a good reputation in the org and has a personality to challenge people in front of others naturally? He could make you lose face in front of your direct skip level, make it difficult for you to develop executive presence. I would try to make them an ally, catch them offline. I would also maybe ask them and say, hey, look, I respect your opinion. Always start with a compliment if you can. I respect your opinion very much. You're very you often have good insights and I welcome your feedback. But it doesn't help me. When you challenge me in front of my team. Would you be willing to challenge me offline? So we discuss some of this offline. I promise I will honor your comments. I'll always take them seriously. Another thing you can do is you can go to them before the meeting and say, Jason, you often have great comments in our meeting. I actually want to address your comments ahead of time. They're always so on point. I don't want to be caught off guard. Would you share your thoughts here? Tell me in advance. I'll give you the document. Whatever. Now, look, I flattered Jason only if Jason is a really manipulative guy. Is he basically going to think to himself? No, I want to light you up in front of a crowd. Instead, he wants to look smart. He's going to tell me what he's thinking. And if he does then light me up in front of a crowd, it's pretty easy for me to go back to Jason, be like, dude, why are you such a jerk? Because it's a it's a dick move and they know it. So you they're less likely to do it. Now, they may try and if they're really an a-hole, they'll say, well, I paraphrase is I didn't know you were going to say such stupid things. I had no choice. But then you just know you're dealing with a complete a-hole, in which case get away from them or figure out how to set them up. Takes a lot of thinking and it probably isn't worth it. But figure out how to lure them out so they look dumb because they're so eager to jump in and make a point. You just try to get them to make a bad point, right? You figure out what bait they'll jump at because people who are that eager to screw you are going to jump at any bait. And you just what you do is you lay something out there, let them ask a question and hammer it because you already know they're going to ask. So that's another good trick is you and if you can. This is a corner case, but if you can't work with them in the ways I described earlier, which is the right way to do it, then what you do instead is you say, I know I can guess they're going to ask a couple zinger questions and I have pretty good question ideas what they're going to be. I'm going to have my answers so tight. I'm just going to let them pounce on something and then I'm going to pounce back. And so they're actually going to help me because they're going to set me up to look like I can handle tough questions. So it's like creating a plant in your audience. It's just there an unwitting foil. So this stuff takes practice. Okay, it does take practice, but you can do it. Last question. How do you get past the fear of a bad first impression, which impacts your day to day because you're constantly under pressure. And this fear impacts your confidence. Yeah. Um, look, fear is the mind killer. Okay. Um, my answer to fear is practice. And if you're really worried about particularly speaking, Jason, can you put Harriet Coles stuff in? There's a woman I had as a speaker in my community. She coaches specifically public speaking presence. She has a class. She also does private coaching. I'm sure I don't know her rates. Her class is the same cost as this. Her rates are probably quite expensive because she's coached some incredible people. By the way, she's also an African American woman. And if she can have executive presence, that is the hardest category in America to have executive presence. If she can do it, you can do it. She teaches this better than I do. But if there's a one word answer, it's always practice or preparation. If you know you're going to have to say something, make a first impression, know what you're going to say before you're in that situation. Do what the guy in Rejection Proof did. Go practice outside of work. Force yourself to talk to a few people out in the world. Get better at chatting up the barista at Starbucks because even though it's hard, excuse me, I'm starting to lose my voice at the end of two days, you're going to have to practice talking to people and get over the fear of strangers. All right. So I'm sorry I didn't get to every possible question, but we went to one. We went from one with 30 votes down to one with five. So we covered the big ones. Thank you all for staying. I hope you've gotten a ton out of this. Please rate us 10 stars. And if you can't rate us 10 stars, reach out to Jason and I and we'll see what we can do. I hope you've gotten a ton out of this. Stay for the networking. Build your network. And remember, you now have all the information to thrive. It's useless if you don't take action. Go take the actions. With that, I'm going to make Jason the host. Thank you.